Go-Explore: a New Approach for Hard-Exploration
Problems

arXiv:1901.10995v4 [cs.LG] 26 Feb 2021

Adrien Ecoffet

Joost Huizinga

Joel Lehman
Kenneth O. Stanley*
Uber AI Labs
San Francisco, CA 94103
adrienecoffet,joost.hui,jclune@gmail.com
*Co-senior authors

Jeff Clune*

Authors’ note: We recommend reading (and citing) our updated paper, “First return, then explore”:
Ecoffet, A., Huizinga, J., Lehman, J., Stanley, K.O. and Clune, J. First return, then explore. Nature
590, 580–586 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-03157-9
It can be found at https://tinyurl.com/Go-Explore-Nature.

Abstract
A grand challenge in reinforcement learning is intelligent exploration, especially
when rewards are sparse or deceptive. Two Atari games serve as benchmarks for
such hard-exploration domains: Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall. On both games,
current RL algorithms perform poorly, even those with intrinsic motivation, which
is the dominant method to encourage exploration and improve performance on hardexploration domains. To address this shortfall, we introduce a new algorithm called
Go-Explore. It exploits the following principles: (1) remember states that have
previously been visited, (2) first return to a promising state (without exploration),
then explore from it, and (3) solve simulated environments through exploiting any
available means (including by introducing determinism), then robustify (create a
policy that can reliably perform the solution) via imitation learning. The combined
effect of these principles generates dramatic performance improvements on hardexploration problems. On Montezuma’s Revenge, without being provided any
domain knowledge, Go-Explore scores over 43,000 points, almost 4 times the
previous state of the art. Go-Explore can also easily harness human-provided
domain knowledge, and when augmented with it Go-Explore scores a mean of
over 650,000 points on Montezuma’s Revenge. Its max performance of 18 million
surpasses the human world record by an order of magnitude, thus meeting even
the strictest definition of “superhuman” performance. On Pitfall, Go-Explore with
domain knowledge is the first algorithm to score above zero. Its mean performance
of almost 60,000 points also exceeds expert human performance. Because GoExplore can produce many high-performing demonstrations automatically and
cheaply, it also outperforms previous imitation learning work in which the solution
was provided in the form of a human demonstration. Go-Explore opens up many
new research directions into improving it and weaving its insights into current RL
algorithms. It may also enable progress on previously unsolvable hard-exploration
problems in a variety of domains, especially the many that often harness a simulator
during training (e.g. robotics).

1

Introduction

Reinforcement learning (RL) has experienced significant progress in recent years, achieving superhuman performance in board games such as Go [1, 2] and in classic video games such as Atari [3].
However, this progress obscures some of the deep unmet challenges in scaling RL to complex

real-world domains. In particular, many important tasks require effective exploration to be solved, i.e.
to explore and learn about the world even when rewards are sparse or deceptive. In sparse-reward
problems, precise sequences of many (e.g. hundreds or more) actions must be taken between obtaining rewards. Deceptive-reward problems are even harder, because instead of feedback rarely
being provided, the reward function actually provides misleading feedback for reaching the overall
global objective, which can lead to getting stuck on local optima. Both sparse and deceptive reward
problems constitute “hard-exploration” problems, and classic RL algorithms perform poorly on
them [4]. Unfortunately, most challenging real-world problems are also hard-exploration problems.
That is because we often desire to provide abstract goals (e.g. “find survivors and tell us their location,”
or “turn off the valve to the leaking pipe in the reactor”), and such reward functions do not provide
detailed guidance on how to solve the problem (sparsity) while also often creating unintended local
optima (deception) [5–8].
For example, in the case of finding survivors in a disaster area, survivors will be few and far between,
thus introducing sparsity. Even worse, if we also instruct the robot to minimize damage to itself,
this additional reward signal may actively teach the robot not to explore the environment, because
exploration is initially much more likely to result in damage than it is to result in finding a survivor.
This seemingly sensible additional objective thus introduces deception on top of the already sparse
reward problem.
To address these challenges, this paper introduces Go-Explore, a new algorithm for hard-exploration
problems that dramatically improves state-of-the-art performance in two classic hard-exploration
benchmarks: the Atari games Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall.
Prior to Go-Explore, the typical approach to sparse reward problems has been intrinsic motivation
(IM) [4, 9–11], which supplies the RL agent with intrinsic rewards (IRs) that encourage exploration
(augmenting or replacing extrinsic reward that comes from the environment). IM is often motivated by
psychological concepts such as curiosity [12, 13] or novelty-seeking [7, 14], which play a role in how
humans explore and learn. While IM has produced exciting progress in sparse reward problems, in
many domains IM approaches are still far from fully solving the problem, including on Montezuma’s
Revenge and Pitfall. We hypothesize that, amongst other issues, such failures stem from two root
causes that we call detachment and derailment.
Detachment is the idea that an agent driven by IM could become detached from the frontiers of
high intrinsic reward (IR). To understand detachment, we must first consider that intrinsic reward
is nearly always a consumable resource: a curious agent is curious about states to the extent that it
has not often visited them (similar arguments apply for surprise, novelty, or prediction-error seeking
agents [4, 14–16]). If an agent discovers multiple areas of the state space that produce high IR, its
policy may in the short term focus on one such area. After exhausting some of the IR offered by that
area, the policy may by chance begin consuming IR in another area. Once it has exhausted that IR, it
is difficult for it to rediscover the frontier it detached from in the initial area, because it has already
consumed the IR that led to that frontier (Fig. 1), and it likely will not remember how to return to
that frontier due to catastrophic forgetting [17–20]. Each time this process occurs, a potential avenue
of exploration can be lost, or at least be difficult to rediscover. In the worst case, there may be a
dearth of remaining IR near the areas of state space visited by the current policy (even though much
IR might remain elsewhere), and therefore no learning signal remains to guide the agent to further
explore in an effective and informed way. One could slowly add intrinsic rewards back over time,
but then the entire fruitless process could repeat indefinitely. In theory a replay buffer could prevent
detachment, but in practice it would have to be large to prevent data about the abandoned frontier to
not be purged before it becomes needed, and large replay buffers introduce their own optimization
stability difficulties [21, 22]. The Go-Explore algorithm addresses detachment by explicitly storing
an archive of promising states visited so that they can then be revisited and explored from later.
Derailment can occur when an agent has discovered a promising state and it would be beneficial
to return to that state and explore from it. Typical RL algorithms attempt to enact such desirable
behavior by running the policy that led to the initial state again, but with some stochastic perturbations
to the existing policy mixed in to encourage a slightly different behavior (e.g. exploring further). The
stochastic perturbation is performed because IM agents have two layers of exploration mechanisms:
(1) the higher-level IR incentive that rewards when new states are reached, and (2) a more basic
exploratory mechanism such as epsilon-greedy exploration, action-space noise, or parameter-space
noise [23–25]. Importantly, IM agents rely on the latter mechanism to discover states containing

2

Figure 1: A hypothetical example of detachment in intrinsic motivation (IM) algorithms. Green
areas indicate intrinsic reward, white indicates areas where no intrinsic reward remains, and purple
areas indicate where the algorithm is currently exploring. (1) The agent starts each episode between
the two mazes. (2) It may by chance start exploring the West maze and IM may drive it to learn to
traverse, say, 50% of it. (3) Because current algorithms sprinkle in randomness (either in actions or
parameters) to try to produce new behaviors to find explicit or intrinsic rewards, by chance the agent
may at some point begin exploring the East maze, where it will also encounter a lot of intrinsic reward.
After completely exploring the East maze, it has no explicit memory of the promising exploration
frontier it abandoned in the West maze. It likely would also have no implicit memory of this frontier
due to the problem of catastrophic forgetting [17–20]. (4) Worse, the path leading to the frontier in
the West maze has already been explored, so no (or little) intrinsic motivation remains to rediscover
it. We thus say the algorithm has detached from a frontier of states that provide intrinsic motivation.
As a result, exploration can stall when areas close to where the current agent visits have already
been explored. This problem would be remedied if the agent remembered and returned to previously
discovered promising areas for exploration, which Go-Explore does.
Phase 1: explore until solved
Select state
from archive

Go to state

Phase 2: robustify
(if necessary)

Explore
from state

Update
archive

Run imitation learning
on best trajectory

Figure 2: A high-level overview of the Go-Explore algorithm.

high IR, and the former mechanism to return to them. However, the longer, more complex, and more
precise a sequence of actions needs to be in order to reach a previously-discovered high-IR state,
the more likely it is that such stochastic perturbations will “derail” the agent from ever returning to
that state. That is because the needed precise actions are naively perturbed by the basic exploration
mechanism, causing the agent to only rarely succeed in reaching the known state to which it is drawn,
and from which further exploration might be most effective. To address derailment, an insight in
Go-Explore is that effective exploration can be decomposed into first returning to a promising state
(without intentionally adding any exploration) before then exploring further.
Go-Explore is an explicit response to both detachment and derailment that is also designed to achieve
robust solutions in stochastic environments. The version presented here works in two phases (Fig. 2):
(1) first solve the problem in a way that may be brittle, such as solving a deterministic version of the
problem (i.e. discover how to solve the problem at all), and (2) then robustify (i.e. train to be able to
3

reliably perform the solution in the presence of stochasticity).1 Similar to IM algorithms, Phase 1
focuses on exploring infrequently visited states, which forms the basis for dealing with sparse-reward
and deceptive problems. In contrast to IM algorithms, Phase 1 addresses detachment and derailment
by accumulating an archive of states and ways to reach them through two strategies: (a) add all
interestingly different states visited so far into the archive, and (b) each time a state from the archive
is selected to explore from, first Go back to that state (without adding exploration), and then Explore
further from that state in search of new states (hence the name “Go-Explore”).
An analogy of searching a house can help one contrast IM algorithms and Phase 1 of Go-Explore.
IM algorithms are akin to searching through a house with a flashlight, which casts a narrow beam of
exploration first in one area of the house, then another, and another, and so on, with the light being
drawn towards areas of intrinsic motivation at the edge of its small visible region. It can get lost if at
any point the beam fails to fall on any area with intrinsic motivation remaining. Go-Explore more
resembles turning the lights on in one room of a house, then its adjacent rooms, then their adjacent
rooms, etc., until the entire house is illuminated. Go-Explore thus gradually expands its sphere of
knowledge in all directions simultaneously until a solution is discovered.
If necessary, the second phase of Go-Explore robustifies high-performing trajectories from the archive
such that they are robust to the stochastic dynamics of the true environment. Go-Explore robustifies
via imitation learning (aka learning from demonstrations or LfD [26–29]), a technique that learns how
to solve a task from human demonstrations. The only difference with Go-Explore is that the solution
demonstrations are produced automatically by Phase 1 of Go-Explore instead of being provided
by humans. The input to this phase is one or more high-performing trajectories, and the output is
a robust policy able to consistently achieve similar performance. The combination of both phases
instantiates a powerful algorithm for hard-exploration problems, able to deeply explore sparse- and
deceptive-reward environments and robustify high-performing trajectories into reliable solutions that
perform well in the unmodified, stochastic test environment.
Some of these ideas are similar to ideas proposed in related work. Those connections are discussed in
Section 5. That said, we believe we are the first to combine these ideas in this way and demonstrate
that doing so provides substantial performance improvements on hard-exploration problems.
To explore its potential, we test Go-Explore on two hard-exploration benchmarks from the Arcade
Learning Environment (ALE) [30, 31]: Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall. Montezuma’s Revenge
has become an important benchmark for exploration algorithms (including intrinsic motivation
algorithms) [4, 16, 32–39] because precise sequences of hundreds of actions must be taken in
between receiving rewards. Pitfall is even harder because its rewards are sparser (only 32 positive
rewards are scattered over 255 rooms) and because many actions yield small negative rewards that
dissuade RL algorithms from exploring the environment.
Classic RL algorithms (i.e. those without intrinsic motivation) such as DQN [3], A3C [40], ApeX [41] and IMPALA [42] perform poorly on these domains even with up to 22 billion game frames
of experience, scoring 2,500 or lower on Montezuma’s Revenge and failing to solve level one, and
scoring ≤ 0 on Pitfall. Those results exclude experiments that are evaluated in a deterministic test
environment [43, 44] or were given human demonstrations [26, 27, 45]. On Pitfall, the lack of
positive rewards and frequent negative rewards causes RL algorithms to learn a policy that effectively
does nothing, either standing completely still or moving back and forth near the start of the game
(https://youtu.be/Z0lYamtgdqQ [46]).
These two games are also tremendously difficult for planning algorithms, even when allowed to plan
directly within the game emulator. Classical planning algorithms such as UCT [47–49] (a powerful
form of Monte Carlo tree search [49, 50]) obtain 0 points on Montezuma’s Revenge because the state
space is too large to explore effectively, even with probabilistic methods [30, 51].
Despite being specifically designed to tackle sparse reward problems and being the dominant method
for them, IM algorithms also struggle with Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall, although they perform
better than algorithms without IM. On Montezuma’s Revenge, the best such algorithms thus far
average around 11,500 with a maximum of 17,500 [16, 39]. One solved level 1 of the game in 10%
of its runs [16]. Even with IM, no algorithm scores greater than 0 on Pitfall (in a stochastic test
1

Note that this second phase is in principle not necessary if Phase 1 itself produces a policy that can handle
stochastic environments (Section 2.1.3).

4

environment, without a human demonstration). We hypothesize that detachment and derailment are
major reasons why IM algorithms do not perform better.
When exploiting easy-to-provide domain knowledge, Go-Explore on Montezuma’s Revenge scores
a mean of 666,474, and its best run scores over 18 million and solves 1,441 levels. On Pitfall,
Go-Explore scores a mean of 59,494 and a maximum of 107,363, which is close to the maximum
of the game of 112,000 points. Without exploiting domain knowledge, Go-Explore still scores a
mean of 43,763 on Montezuma’s Revenge. All scores are dramatic improvements over the previous
state of the art. This and all other claims about solving the game and producing state-of-the-art
scores assume that, while stochasticity is required during testing, deterministic training is allowable
(discussed in Section 2.1.3). We conclude that Go-Explore is a promising new algorithm for solving
hard-exploration RL tasks with sparse and/or deceptive rewards.

2

The Go-Explore Algorithm

The insight that remembering and returning reliably to promising states is fundamental to effective
exploration in sparse-reward problems is at the core of Go-Explore. Because this insight is so flexible
and can be exploited in different ways, Go-Explore effectively encompasses a family of algorithms
built around this key idea. The variant implemented for the experiments in this paper and described
in detail in this section relies on two distinct phases. While it provides a canonical demonstration
of the possibilities opened up by Go-Explore, other variants are also discussed (e.g. in Section 4) to
provide a broader compass for future applications.
2.1

Phase 1: Explore until solved

In the two-phase variant of Go-Explore presented in this paper, the purpose of Phase 1 is to explore
the state space and find one or more high-performing trajectories that can later be turned into a robust
policy in Phase 2. To do so, Phase 1 builds up an archive of interestingly different game states, which
we call “cells” (Section 2.1.1), and trajectories that lead to them. It starts with an archive that only
contains the starting state. From there, it builds the archive by repeating the following procedures:
choose a cell from the current archive (Section 2.1.2), return to that cell without adding any stochastic
exploration (Section 2.1.3), and then explore from that location stochastically (Section 2.1.4). During
this process, any newly encountered cells (as well as how to reach them) or improved trajectories to
existing cells are added to the archive (Section 2.1.5).
2.1.1

Cell representations

One could, in theory, run Go-Explore directly in a high-dimensional state space (wherein each cell
contains exactly one state); however doing so would be intractable in practice. To be tractable in
high-dimensional state spaces like Atari, Phase 1 of Go-Explore needs a lower-dimensional space
within which to search (although the final policy will still play in the same original state space, in this
case pixels). Thus, the cell representation should conflate similar states while not conflating states
that are meaningfully different.
In this way, a good cell representation should reduce the dimensionality of the observations into a
meaningful low-dimensional space. A rich literature investigates how to obtain good representations
from pixels. One option is to take latent codes from the middle of neural networks trained with
traditional RL algorithms maximizing extrinsic and/or intrinsic motivation, optionally adding auxiliary
tasks such as predicting rewards [52]. Additional options include unsupervised techniques such
as networks that autoencode [53] or predict future states, and other auxiliary tasks such as pixel
control [54].
While it will be interesting to test any or all of these techniques with Go-Explore in future work, for
these initial experiments with Go-Explore we test its performance with two different representations:
a simple one that does not harness game-specific domain knowledge, and one that does exploit
easy-to-provide domain knowledge.
Cell representations without domain knowledge
We found that a very simple dimensionality reduction procedure produces surprisingly good results on
Montezuma’s Revenge. The main idea is simply to downsample the current game frame. Specifically,
5

Figure 3: Example cell representation without domain knowledge, which is simply to downsample each game frame. The full observable state, a color image, is converted to grayscale and
downscaled to an 11 × 8 image with 8 possible pixel intensities.

we (1) convert each game frame image to grayscale (2) downscale it to an 11 × 8 image with area
interpolation (i.e. using the average pixel value in the area of the downsampled pixel), (3) rescale
pixel intensities so that they are integers between 0 and 8, instead of the original 0 to 255 (Fig. 3).
The downscaling dimensions and pixel-intensity range were found by grid search. The aggressive
downscaling used by this representation is reminiscent of the Basic feature set from Bellemare et al.
[30]. This cell representation requires no game-specific knowledge and is fast to compute.
Cell representations with domain knowledge
The ability of an algorithm to integrate easy-to-provide domain knowledge can be an important asset.
In Montezuma’s Revenge, domain knowledge is provided as unique combinations of the x, y position
of the agent (discretized into a grid in which each cell is 16 × 16 pixels), room number, level number,
and in which rooms the currently-held keys were found. In the case of Pitfall, only the x, y position
of the agent and the room number were used. All this information was extracted directly from pixels
with simple hand-coded classifiers to detect objects such as the main character’s location combined
with our knowledge of the map structure in the two games (Appendix A.3). While Go-Explore
provides the opportunity to leverage domain knowledge in the cell representation in Phase 1, the
robustified neural network produced by Phase 2 still plays directly from pixels only.
2.1.2

Selecting cells

In each iteration of Phase 1, a cell is chosen from the archive to explore from. This choice could be
made uniformly at random, but we can improve upon that baseline in many cases by creating (or
learning) a heuristic for preferring some cells over others. In preliminary experiments, we found
that such a heuristic can improve performance over uniform random sampling (data not shown). The
exact heuristic differs depending on the problem being solved, but at a high level, the heuristics in our
work assign a positive weight to each cell that is higher for cells that are deemed more promising. For
example, cells might be preferred because they have not been visited often, have recently contributed
to discovering a new cell, or are expected to be near undiscovered cells. The weights of all cells are
normalized to represent the probability of each cell being chosen next. No cell is ever given a weight
equal to 0, so that all cells in principle remain available for further exploration. The exact heuristics
from our experiments are described in Appendix A.5.
2.1.3

Returning to cells and opportunities to exploit deterministic simulators

One of the main principles of Go-Explore is to return to a promising cell without added exploration
before exploring from that cell. The Go-Explore philosophy is that we should make returning to
that cell as easy as possible given the constraints of the problem. The easiest way to return to a
cell is if the world is deterministic and resettable, such that one can reset the state of the simulator
to a previous visit to that cell. Whether performing such resets is allowable for RL research is an
interesting subject of debate that was motivated by the initial announcement of Go-Explore [55].
The ability to harness determinism and perform such resets forces us to recognize that there are two
different types of problems we wish to solve with RL algorithms: those that require stochasticity at
test time only, and those that require stochasticity during both testing and training.
We start with the former. Because current RL algorithms can take unsafe actions [56, 57] and require
tremendous amounts of experience to learn [41, 42, 58], the majority of applications of RL in the
6

foreseeable future will likely require training in a simulator before being transferred to (and optionally
fine-tuned in) the real world. For example, most work with learning algorithms for robotics train in a
simulator before transferring the solution to the real world; that is because learning directly on the
robot is slow, sample-inefficient, can damage the robot, and can be unsafe [59–61]. Fortunately, for
many domains, simulators are available (e.g. robotics simulators, traffic simulators, etc.). An insight
of Go-Explore is that we can take advantage of the fact that such simulators can be made deterministic
to improve performance, especially on hard-exploration problems. For many types of problems, we
want a reliable final solution (e.g. a robot that reliably finds survivors after a natural disaster) and
there is no principled reason to care whether we obtain this solution via initially deterministic training.
If we can solve previously unsolvable problems, including ones that are stochastic at evaluation (test)
time, via making simulators deterministic, we should take advantage of this opportunity.
There are also cases where a simulator is not available and where learning algorithms must confront
stochasticity during training. To create and test algorithms for this second type of problem, we cannot
exploit determinism and resettability. Examples of this class of problems include when we must
learn directly in the real world (and an effective simulator is not available and cannot be learned),
or when studying the learning of biological animals, including ourselves. We believe Go-Explore
can handle such situations by training goal-conditioned policies [62, 63] that reliably return to cells
in the archive during the exploration phase, which is an interesting area for future research. While
computationally much more expensive, this strategy would result in a fully trained policy at the end
of the exploration phase, meaning there would be no need for a robustification phase at the end. We
note that there are some problems where the environment has forms of stochasticity that prevent the
algorithm from reliably returning to a particular cell, regardless of which action the agent takes (e.g.
in poker, there is no sequence of actions that reliably leads you to a state where you have two aces).
We leave a discussion and study of whether Go-Explore helps in that problem setting for future work.
With this distinction in mind, we can now ask whether Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall represent the
first type of domain (where all we care about is a solution that is robust to stochasticity at test time) or
the second (situations where the algorithm must handle stochasticity while training). We believe few
people in the community had considered this question before our initial blog post on Go-Explore [55]
and that it created a healthy debate on this subject. Because Atari games are proxies for the problems
we want to solve with RL, and because both types of problems exist, a natural conclusion is that we
should have benchmarks for each. One version of a task can require stochasticity during testing only,
and another can require stochasticity during both training and testing. All results and claims in this
version of this paper are for the version of these domains that does not require stochasticity during
training (i.e. stochasticity is required during evaluation only). Applying Go-Explore when training is
stochastic remains an exciting avenue of research for the near future.
For problems in which all we care about is a reliable policy at test time, a key insight behind
Go-Explore is that we can first solve the problem (Phase 1), and then (if necessary) deal with
making the solution more robust later (Phase 2). In contrast with the usual view of determinism as
a stumbling block to producing agents that are robust and high-performing, it can be made an ally
during exploration and then the solution extended to nondeterminism afterwards via robustification.
An important domain where such insights can help is robotics, where training is often done in
simulation before policies are transferred to the real world [59–61].
For the experiments in this paper, because we harness deterministic training, we could return to a cell
by storing the sequence of actions that lead to it and subsequently replay those actions. However,
simply saving the state of the emulator (in addition to this sequence of steps) and restoring that state
when revisiting a cell gains additional efficiency. Doing so reduced the number of steps that needed
to be simulated by at least one order of magnitude (Appendix A.8).
Due to the fact that the present version of Go-Explore operates in a deterministic setting during
Phase 1, each cell is associated with an open-loop sequence of instructions that lead to it given the
initial state, not a proper policy that maps any state to an action. A true policy is produced during
robustification in Phase 2 (Section 2.2).
2.1.4

Exploration from cells

Once a cell is reached, any exploration method can be applied to find new cells. In this work the agent
explores by taking random actions for k = 100 training frames, with a 95% probability of repeating
the previous action at each training frame (frames at which the agent is allowed to take an action,
7

thus not including any frames skipped due to frame skip, see Appendix A.1). Besides reaching the
k = 100 training frame limit for exploration, exploration is also aborted at the episode’s end (defined
in Appendix A.2), and the action that led to the episode ending is ignored because it does not produce
a destination cell.
Interestingly, such exploration does not require a neural network or other controller, and indeed no
neural network was used for the exploration phase (Phase 1) in any of the experiments in this paper
(we do not train a neural network until Phase 2). The fact that entirely random exploration works so
well highlights the surprising power of simply returning to promising cells before exploring further,
though we believe exploring intelligently (e.g. via a trained policy) would likely improve our results
and is an interesting avenue for future work.
2.1.5

Updating the archive

While an agent is exploring from a cell, the archive updates in two conditions. The first condition is
when the agent visits a cell that was not yet in the archive (which can happen multiple times while
exploring from a given cell). In this case, that cell is added to the archive with four associated pieces
of metadata: (1) how the agent got to that cell (here, a full trajectory from the starting state to that
cell), (2) the state of the environment at the time of discovering the cell (if the environment supports
such an operation, which is true for the two Atari-game domains in this paper), (3) the cumulative
score of that trajectory, and (4) the length of that trajectory.
The second condition is when a newly-encountered trajectory is “better” than that belonging to a
cell already in the archive. For the experiments below, we define a new trajectory as better than
an existing trajectory when the new trajectory either has a higher cumulative score or when it is
a shorter trajectory with the same score. In either case, the existing cell in the archive is updated
with the new trajectory, the new trajectory length, the new environment state, and the new score. In
addition, information affecting the likelihood of this cell being chosen (see Appendix A.5) is reset,
including the total number of times the cell has been chosen and the number of times the cell has
been chosen since leading to the discovery of another cell. Resetting these values is beneficial when
cells conflate many different states because a new way of reaching a cell may actually be a more
promising stepping stone to explore from (so we want to encourage its selection). We do not reset the
counter that records the number of times the cell has been visited because that would make recently
discovered cells indistinguishable from recently updated cells, and recently discovered cells (i.e.
those with low visit counts) are more promising to explore because they are likely near the surface of
our expanding sphere of knowledge.
Because cells conflate many states, we cannot assume that a trajectory from start state A through cell
B to cell C will still reach C if we substitute a different, better way to get from A to B; therefore,
the better way of reaching a cell is not integrated into the trajectories of other cells that built upon
the original trajectory. However, performing such substitutions might work with goal-conditioned or
otherwise robust policies, and investigating that possibility is an interesting avenue for future work.
2.1.6

Batch implementation

We implemented Phase 1 in parallel to take advantage of multiple CPUs (our experiments ran on a
single machine with 22 CPU cores): at each step, a batch of b cells is selected (with replacement)
according to the rules described in Section 2.1.2 and Appendix A.5, and exploration from each of
these cells proceeds in parallel for each. Besides using the multiple CPUs to run more instances of
the environment, a high b also saves time by recomputing cell selection probabilities less frequently,
which is important as this computation accounts for a significant portion of run time as the archive
gets large (though this latter factor could be mitigated in other ways in the future). Because the size
of b also has an indirect effect on the exploration behavior of Go-Explore (for instance, the initial
state is guaranteed to be chosen b times at the very first iteration), it is in effect a hyperparameter,
whose values are given in Appendix A.6.
2.2

Phase 2: Robustification

If successful, the result of Phase 1 is one or more high-performing trajectories. However, if Phase 1
of Go-Explore harnessed determinism in a simulator, such trajectories will not be robust to any
stochasticity, which is present at test time. Phase 2 addresses this gap by creating a policy robust to
8

noise via imitation learning, also called learning from demonstration (LfD). Importantly, stochasticity
is added during Phase 2 so that the final policy is robust to the stochasticity it will face during
its evaluation in the test environment. Thus the policy being trained has to learn how to mimic
and/or perform as well as the trajectory obtained from the Go-Explore exploration phase while
simultaneously dealing with circumstances that were not present in the original trajectory. Depending
on the stochasticity of the environment, this adjustment can be highly challenging, but nevertheless is
far easier than attempting to solve a sparse-reward problem from scratch.
While most imitation learning algorithms could be used for Phase 2, different types of imitation
learning algorithms can qualitatively affect the resulting policy. LfD algorithms that try to closely
mimic the behavior of the demonstration may struggle to improve upon it. For this reason, we
chose an LfD algorithm that has been shown capable of improving upon its demonstrations: the
Backward Algorithm from Salimans and Chen [28]. It works by starting the agent near the last state
in the trajectory, and then running an ordinary RL algorithm from there (in this case Proximal Policy
Optimization (PPO) [64]). Once the algorithm has learned to obtain the same or a higher reward than
the example trajectory from that starting place near the end of the trajectory, the algorithm backs the
agent’s starting point up to a slightly earlier place along the trajectory, and repeats the process until
eventually the agent has learned to obtain a score greater than or equal to the example trajectory all
the way from the initial state. Note that a similar algorithm was discovered independently at around
the same time by Resnick et al. [65].
While this approach to robustification effectively treats the expert trajectory as a curriculum for the
agent, the policy is only optimized to maximize its own score, and not actually forced to accurately
mimic the trajectory. For this reason, this phase is able to further optimize the expert trajectories, as
well as generalize beyond them, both of which we observed in practice in our experiments (Section 3).
In addition to seeking a higher score than the original trajectory, because it is an RL algorithm with a
discount factor that prizes near-term rewards more than those gathered later, it also has a pressure
to improve the efficiency with which it collects rewards. Thus if the original trajectory contains
unnecessary actions (like visiting a dead end and returning), such behavior could be eliminated during
robustification (a phenomenon we also observed).
2.3

Additional experimental and analysis details

Comparing sample complexity for RL algorithms trained on Atari games can be tricky due to the
common usage of frame skipping [31, 66], wherein a policy only sees and acts every nth (here, 4)
frame, and that action is repeated for intervening frames to save the computation of running the policy.
Specifically, it can be ambiguous whether the frames that are skipped are counted (which we call
“game frames”) or ignored (which we call “training frames”) when discussing sample complexity. In
this work, we always qualify the word “frame” accordingly and all numbers we report are measured
in game frames. Appendix A.1 further details the subtleties of this issue.
Because the Atari games are deterministic by default, some form of stochasticity needs to be
introduced to provide a stochastic test environment, which is desirable to make Atari an informative
test bed for RL algorithms. Following previous work, we introduce stochasticity into the Atari
environment with two previously employed techniques: random no-ops and sticky actions.
Random no-ops means that the agent is forced to take up to 30 no-ops (do nothing commands) at the
start of the game. Because most Atari games run on a timer that affects whether hazards are present
or not, or where different hazards, items, or enemies are located, taking a random number of no-ops
puts the world into a slightly different state each time, meaning that fixed trajectories (such as the
ones found by Go-Explore Phase 1) will no longer work. Random no-ops were first introduced by
Mnih et al. [3], and they were adopted as a primary source of stochasticity in most subsequent papers
working in the Atari domain [3, 26, 27, 34, 38, 41, 42, 45, 67–73].
While random no-ops prevent single, memorized trajectories from solving Atari games, the remainder
of the game remains deterministic, meaning there is still much determinism that can be exploited.
While several other forms of stochasticity have been proposed (e.g. humans restarts [74], random
frame skips [75], etc.), a particularly elegant form is sticky actions [31], where at each game frame
there exists some probability of repeating the previous action instead of performing a newly chosen
action. This way to introduce stochasticity is akin to how humans are not frame perfect, but may hold
a button for slightly longer than they intended, or how they may be slightly late in pressing a button.
9

Because Atari games have been designed for human play, the addition of sticky actions generally
does not prevent a game from being solvable, and it adds some stochasticity to every state in the
game, not just the start. Although our initial blog post [55] only included random no-ops, in this
paper our robustification and all post-robustification test results are produced with a combination
of both random no-ops and sticky actions. All algorithms we compare against in Section 3 and in
Appendix A.9 likewise were tested with some form of stochasticity (in the form of no-ops, sticky
actions, human starts, or some combination thereof), though it is worth noting that, unlike Go-Explore,
most also had to handle stochasticity throughout training. Relevant algorithms that were tested in a
deterministic environment are discussed in Section 5.
All hyperparameters were found by performing a separate grid-search for each experiment. The
final, best performing hyperparameters are listed in Appendix A.6, tables 1 and 2. All confidence
intervals given are 95% bootstrapped confidence intervals computed using the pivotal (also known as
empirical) method [76], obtained by resampling 10,000 times. Confidence intervals are reported with
the following notation: stat (CI: lower – upper) where stat is the statistic (a mean unless otherwise
specified). In graphs containing shaded areas, those areas indicate the 95% percentile bootstrapped
confidence interval of the mean, obtained by resampling 1,000 times. Graphs of the exploration phase
(Phase 1) depict data at approximately every 4M game frames and graphs of the robustification phase
(Phase 2) depict data at approximately every 130,000 game frames.
Because the robustification process can diverge even after finding a solution, the neural network
at the end of training does not necessarily perform well, even if a high-performing solution was
found at some point during this process. To retrieve a neural network that performs well regardless of when it was found, all robustification runs (Phase 2) produced a checkpoint of the neural
network approximately every 13M game frames. Because the performance values recorded during
robustification are noisy, we cannot select the best performing checkpoint from those performance
values alone. As such, at the end of each robustification run, out of the checkpoints with the lowest
max_starting_point (or close to it), a random subset of checkpoints (between 10 and 50) was
tested to evaluate the performance of the neural network stored within that checkpoint. We test a
random subset because robustification runs usually produce more successful checkpoints then we can
realistically test. The highest-scoring checkpoint for each run was then re-tested to account for the
selection bias inherent in selecting the best checkpoint. The scores from this final retest are the ones
we report.
The neural network from each checkpoint is evaluated with random no-ops and sticky actions until at
least 5 scores for each of the 31 possible starting no-ops (from 0 to 30 inclusive) are obtained. The
mean score for each no-op is then calculated and the final score for the checkpoint is the grand mean
of the individual no-op scores. Unless otherwise specified, the default time limit of 400,000 game
frames imposed by OpenAI Gym [75] is enforced.

3

Results

3.1

Montezuma’s Revenge

3.1.1

Without domain knowledge in the cell representation

In this first experiment, we run Go-Explore on Montezuma’s Revenge with the downsampled image
cell representation, which does not require game-specific domain knowledge. Despite the simplicity
of this cell representation, Phase 1 of Go-Explore solves level 1 in 57% of runs after 1.2B game
frames (a modest number by modern standards [41, 42]), with one of the 100 runs also solving level
2, and visits a mean of 35 rooms (CI: 33 – 37) (Fig. 4a). The number of new cells being discovered is
still increasing linearly after 1.2B game frames, indicating that results would likely be even better
were it run longer (Fig. 4b). Phase 1 of Go-Explore achieves a mean score of 57,439 (CI: 47,843 –
67,224) (Fig. 4c). Level 1 was solved after a mean of 640M (CI: 567M – 711M) game frames, which
took a mean of 10.8 (CI: 9.5 – 12.0) hours on a single, 22-CPU machine (note that these level 1
numbers exclude the runs that never solved level 1 after 1.2B game frames). See Appendix A.8 for
more details on performance.
Amusingly, Go-Explore discovered a little-known bug in Montezuma’s Revenge called the “treasure
room curse” [77]. If the agent performs a specific sequence of actions, it can remain in the treasure
room (the final room before being sent to the next level) indefinitely, instead of being automatically
10

0.0

0.5
1.0
1e9
Game Frames

(a) Number of rooms found

Best Score

10

Found Cells

Found Rooms

State of the art

20

0

60,000

15,000

30

10,000
5,000
0

0.0

0.5
1.0
Game Frames 1e9

(b) Number of cells found

40,000

Human Expert

20,000
0

0.0

Average Human
0.5
1.0
Game Frames 1e9

(c) Maximum score in archive

Figure 4: Performance of the exploration phase of Go-Explore with downscaled frames on
Montezuma’s Revenge. Lines indicating human and the algorithmic state of the art are for comparison, but recall that the Go-Explore scores in this plot are on a deterministic version of the game
(unlike the post-Phase 2 scores presented in this section).

30,000
25,000

4,000

Max Starting Point

Max Starting Point

5,000

3,000
2,000
1,000
0

20,000
15,000
10,000

Demo 0
Demo 1
Demo 2
Demo 3
Demo 4
Demo 5
Demo 6
Demo 7
Demo 8
Demo 9

5,000
0

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6
1e9
Game Frames

(a) Failed robustification with 1 demonstration

0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6
1e9
Game Frames

(b) Successful robustification with 10 demonstrations

Figure 5: Examples of maximum starting point over training for robustifying using different
numbers of demonstrations. Success is achieved as soon as any of the curves gets sufficiently close
(e.g. within 50 units) to 0, because that means the agent is able to perform as well as at least one of
the demonstrations.

moved to the next level after some time. Because gems giving 1,000 points keep appearing in the
treasure room, it is possible to easily achieve very high scores once it has been triggered. Finding bugs
in games and simulators, as Go-Explore did, is an interesting reminder of the power and creativity of
optimization algorithms [6], and is commercially valuable as a debugging tool to identify and fix such
bugs before shipping simulators and video games. A video of the treasure room curse as triggered by
Go-Explore is available at https://youtu.be/civ6OOLoR-I.
In 51 out of the 57 runs that solved level 1, the highest-scoring trajectory found by Go-Explore
exploited the bug. To prevent scores from being inflated due to this bug, we filtered out trajectories
that triggered the treasure room curse bug when extracting the highest scoring trajectory from each
run of Go-Explore for robustification (Appendix A.4 provides details).
As mentioned in Section 2.2, we used Salimans & Chen’s Backward Algorithm [28] for robustification.
However, we found it somewhat unreliable in learning from a single demonstration (Fig. 5a). Indeed,
only 40% of our attempts at robustifying trajectories that solved level 1 were successful when using a
single demonstration.
However, because Go-Explore can produce many demonstrations, we modified the Backward Algorithm to simultaneously learn from multiple demonstrations (details in Appendix A.7). To simulate
the use case in which Phase 1 is run repeatedly until enough successful demonstrations (in this case
10) are found, we extracted the highest scoring non-bug demonstration from each of the 57 out of
11

Go-Explore
40,000
Human Expert

Score

30,000

20,000
PPO+CoEX
DQN-PixelCNN
RND
Reactor
Feature-EB
UBE
DQN-CTS
IMPALA
DDQN A3C-CTS
Gorila
A3C
Ape-X
DQN MP-EB
Pop-Art ES C51 Rainbow
Prior. DQN
BASS-hash
Duel. DQN

10,000
Avg. Human
SARSA
0 Linear
2013

2014

2015

2016

Time of publication

2017

2018

2019

Figure 6: History of progress on Montezuma’s Revenge vs. the version of Go-Explore that does
not harness domain knowledge. Go-Explore significantly improves on the prior state of the art.
These data are presented in tabular form in Appendix A.9.

100 Phase 1 runs that had solved level 1, and randomly assigned them to one of 5 non-overlapping
groups of 10 demonstrations (7 demonstrations were left over and ignored), each of which was used
for a robustification run. When training with 10 demonstration trajectories, all 5 robustification runs
were successful. Fig. 5b shows an example of successful robustification with 10 trajectories.
In the end, our robustified policies achieve a mean score of 43,763 (CI: 36,718 – 50,196), substantially
higher than the human expert mean of 34,900 [27]. All policies successfully solve level 1 (with a
99.8% success rate over different stochastic evaluations of the policies), and one of our 5 policies
also solves level 2 100% of the time. Fig. 6 shows how these results compare with prior work.
Surprisingly, the computational cost of Phase 2 is greater than that of Phase 1. These Phase 2 results
were achieved after a mean of 4.35B (CI: 4.27B – 4.45B) game frames of training, which took a
mean of 2.4 (CI: 2.4 – 2.5) days of training (details in Appendix A.8).
3.1.2

With domain knowledge in the cell representation

On Montezuma’s Revenge, when harnessing domain knowledge in its cell representation (Section 2.1.1), Phase 1 of Go-Explore finds a total of 238 (CI: 231 – 245) rooms, solves a mean of 9.1
(CI: 8.8 – 9.4) levels (with every run solving at least 7 levels), and does so in roughly half as many
game frames as with the downscaled image cell representation (Fig. 7a). Its scores are also extremely
high, with a mean of 148,220 (CI: 144,580 – 151,730) (Fig. 7c). These results are averaged over 50
runs.
As with the downscaled version, Phase 1 of Go-Explore with domain knowledge was still discovering
additional rooms, cells, and ever-higher scores linearly when it was stopped (Fig. 7). Indeed, because
every level of Montezuma’s Revenge past level 3 is nearly identical to level 3 (except for the scores
on the screen and the stochastic timing of events) and because each run had already passed level 3, it
would likely continue to find new rooms, cells, and higher scores forever.
Domain knowledge runs spend less time exploiting the treasure room bug because we preferentially
select cells in the highest level reached so far (Appendix A.5). Doing so encourages exploring new
levels instead of exploring the treasure rooms on previous levels to keep exploiting the treasure room
bug. The highest final scores thus come from trajectories that solved many levels. Because knowing
the level number constitutes domain knowledge, non-domain knowledge runs cannot take advantage
of this information and are thus affected by the bug more.
12

Go-Explore
(no domain
knowledge)
Go-Explore
(domain
knowledge)

150
100
50
0

0.0

State of the art
0.5
1.0
1e9
Game Frames

(a) Number of rooms found

50,000
40,000
Best Score

Found Rooms

200

Found Domain Knowledge Cells

250

30,000
20,000
10,000
0

0.0

0.5
1.0
Game Frames 1e9

(b) Number of cells found

150,000
125,000
100,000
75,000
50,000
25,000
0

Human Expert
0.0

Average Human
0.5
1.0
Game Frames 1e9

(c) Maximum score in archive

Figure 7: Performance on Montezuma’s Revenge of Phase 1 of Go-Explore with and without
domain knowledge. The algorithm finds more rooms, cells, and higher scores with the easily
provided domain knowledge, and does so with a better sample complexity. For (b), we plot the
number of cells found in the no-domain-knowledge runs according to the more intelligent cell
representation from the domain-knowledge run to allow for an equal comparison.

In terms of computational performance, Phase 1 with domain knowledge solves the first level after
a mean of only 57.6M (CI: 52.7M – 62.3M) game frames, corresponding to 0.9 (CI: 0.8 – 1.0)
hours on a single 22-CPU machine. Solving level 3, which effectively means solving the entire
game as discussed above, is accomplished in a mean of 173M (CI: 164M – 182M) game frames,
corresponding to 6.8 (CI: 6.2 – 7.3) hours. Appendix A.8 provides full performance details.
For robustification, we chose trajectories that solve level 3, truncated to the exact point at which level
3 is solved because, as mentioned earlier, all levels beyond level 3 are nearly identical aside from the
pixels that display the score, which of course keep changing, and some global counters that change
the timing of aspects of the game like when laser beams turn on and off.
We performed 5 robustification runs with demonstrations from the Phase 1 experiments above, each
of which had a demonstration from each of 10 different Phase 1 runs. All 5 runs succeeded. The
resulting mean score is 666,474 (CI: 461,016 – 915,557), far above both the prior state of the art and
the non-domain knowledge version of Go-Explore. As with the downscaled frame version, Phase 2
was slower than Phase 1, taking a mean of 4.59B (CI: 3.09B – 5.91B) game frames, corresponding to
a mean of 2.6 (CI: 1.8 – 3.3) days of training.
The networks show substantial evidence of generalization to the minor changes in the game beyond
level 3: although the trajectories they were trained on only solve level 3, these networks solved a
mean of 49.7 levels (CI: 32.6 – 68.8). In many cases, the agents did not die, but were stopped by
the maximum limit of 400,000 game frames imposed by default in OpenAI Gym [75]. Removing
this limit altogether, our best single run from a robustified agent achieved a score of 18,003,200 and
solved 1,441 levels during 6,198,985 game frames, corresponding to 28.7 hours of game play (at
60 game frames per second, Atari’s original speed) before losing all its lives. This score is over an
order of magnitude higher than the human world record of 1,219,200 [78], thus achieving the strictest
definition of “superhuman” performance. A video of the agent solving the first ten levels can be seen
here: https://youtu.be/gnGyUPd_4Eo.
Fig. 8 compares the performance of Go-Explore to historical results (including the previous state of
the art), the no-domain-knowledge version of Go-Explore, and previous imitation learning work that
relied on human demonstrations to solve the game. The version of Go-Explore that harnesses domain
knowledge dramatically outperforms them all. Specifically, Go-Explore produces scores over 9 times
greater than those reported for imitation learning from human demonstrations [28] and over 55 times
the score reported for the prior state of the art without human demonstrations [39].
That Go-Explore outperforms imitation learning plus human demonstrations is particularly noteworthy, as human-provided solutions are arguably a much stronger form of domain knowledge than that
provided to Go-Explore. We believe that this result is due to the higher quality of demonstrations
that Go-Explore was able to produce for Montezuma’s Revenge vs. those provided by humans in the
previous imitation learning work. The demonstrations used in our work range in score from 35,200
to 51,900 (lower than the final mean score of 148,220 for Phase 1 because these demonstrations are
13

600,000

No Domain Knowledge
Human Demonstration
Domain Knowledge

Go-Explore (domain knowledge)

500,000

Score

400,000
300,000
200,000
Ape-X DQfD TDC+CMC
LfSD (best)
DQN-CTS
Go-Explore
DQN-PixelCNN
DQfD
Gorila DDQN A3C
RND
DQN MP-EB
Ape-X PPO+CoEX
A3C-CTS
UBE
DeepCS
Duel. DQN BASS-hash

100,000
Human Expert
SARSA
0 Linear
2013

2014

2015

2016

Time of publication

2017

2018

2019

Figure 8: Historical progress on Montezuma’s Revenge vs. the version of Go-Explore that
harnesses domain knowledge. With domain knowledge, Go-Explore dramatically outperforms
prior work, the no-domain-knowledge version of Go-Explore, and even prior work with imitation
learning that was provided the solution in the form of human demonstrations. The data are presented
in tabular form in Appendix A.9.

limited to only solving up to level 3) and most importantly, they all solve level 3. The demonstration
originally used with the Backward Algorithm [28] reaches a score of 71,500 but doesn’t solve level 3,
thus preventing it from generalizing to further levels. The demonstrations used in DQfD and Ape-X
DQfD [26, 27] only range in score from 32,300 to 34,900. In this last case, it is not clear whether
level 3 was solved in any of the demonstrations, but we believe this is unlikely given the reported
scores because they are lower than the lowest level-3-solving scores found by Go-Explore and given
the fact that the human demonstration used by the Backward Algorithm scored twice as high without
solving level 3.
One interesting benefit of a robustification phase with an imitation learning algorithm that does not
try to mimic the original demonstration is that it can improve upon that demonstration. Because of
the discount on future rewards that exists in the base RL algorithm PPO, there is a pressure to remove
inefficiencies in the demonstration. Videos of Go-Explore policies reveal efficient movements. In
contrast, IM algorithms specifically reward reaching novel states, meaning that policies produced by
them often do seemingly inefficient things like deviating to explore dead ends or jumping often to
touch states only accessible by jumping, even though doing so is not necessary to gain real reward.
An example of a Deep Curiosity Search agent [37] performing such inefficient jumps can be viewed at
https://youtu.be/-Fy2va3IbQU, and a random network distillation [16] IM agent can be viewed
at https://youtu.be/40VZeFppDEM. These results suggest that IM algorithms could also benefit
from a robustification phase in which they focus only on real-game reward once the IM phase has
sufficiently explored the state space.
3.2

Pitfall

We next test Go-Explore on the harder, more deceptive game of Pitfall, for which all previous RL
algorithms scored ≤ 0 points, except those that were evaluated on the fully deterministic version of
the game [43, 44] or relied on human demonstrations [26, 27, 45]. As with Montezuma’s Revenge,
we first run Go-Explore with the simple, domain-general, downscaled representation described in
Section 2.1.1, with the same hyperparameters. With these settings, Go-Explore is able to find 22
rooms, but it is unable to find any rewards (Fig. 9). We believe that this number of rooms visited is
greater than the previous state of the art, but the number of rooms visited is infrequently reported
so we are unsure. In preliminary experiments, Go-Explore with a more fine-grained downscaling
14

Go-Explore
(no domain
knowledge)
Go-Explore
(domain
knowledge)

150
100
50
0

0

1

2
3
Game Frames

4
1e9

(a) Number of rooms found

15,000
12,500
10,000
7,500
5,000
2,500
0

60,000
Best Score

200

Found Domain Knowledge Cells

Found Rooms

250

0

1
2
3
Game Frames

(b) Number of cells found

4
1e9

Human Expert

40,000
20,000
0

0

Average Human
1
2
3
4
Game Frames 1e9

(c) Maximum score in archive

Figure 9: Performance on Pitfall of Phase 1 of Go-Explore with and without domain knowledge.
Without domain knowledge, the exploration phase finds about 22 rooms (a), but it then quickly stops
finding new rooms (a) or cells (b) (here, we display discovery of domain-knowledge cells to enable a
fair comparison, see Appendix A.10 for progress on the domain-agnostic cell representation), and it
doesn’t find any rewards (c). With domain knowledge, the exploration phase of Go-Explore finds all
255 rooms (a) and trajectories scoring a mean 70,264 points (c). In addition, even though the number
of rooms (a) and the number cells (b) found stagnates after about 2B game frames, score continues to
go up for about another billion game frames. This is possible because, in Pitfall, there can exist many
different trajectories to the same cell that vary in score. As such, once all reachable cells have been
discovered, Go-Explore relies on replacing lower-scoring trajectories with higher-scoring trajectories
to increase its score. The final score is not the maximum score that can be reached in Pitfall (the
maximum score in Pitfall is 112,000), but Go-Explore finds itself in a local optima where higher
scoring trajectories cannot be found starting from any of the trajectories currently in the archive.
Lines represent the mean over 10 (without domain knowledge) and 40 (with domain knowledge)
independent runs.

procedure (assigning 16 different pixel values to the screen, rather than just 8) is able to find up to 30
rooms, but it then runs out of memory (Appendix A.10). Perhaps with a more efficient or distributed
computational setup this representation could perform well on the domain, a subject we leave to
future work. We did not attempt to robustify any of the trajectories because no positive reward was
found.
We believe the downscaled-image cell representation underperforms on Pitfall because the game is
partially observable, and frequently contains many importantly different states that appear almost
identical (even in the unaltered observation space of the game itself), but require different actions
(Appendix A.12). One potential solution to this problem would be to change to a cell representation
that takes previous states into account to disambiguate such situations. Doing so is an interesting
direction for future work.
Next, we tested Go-Explore with domain knowledge (Section 2.1.1). The cell representation with
domain knowledge is not affected by the partial observability of Pitfall because it maintains the room
number, which is information that disambiguates the visually identical states (note that we can keep
track of the room number from pixel information only by keeping track of all screen transitions that
happened along the trajectory). With it, the exploration phase of Go-Explore (Phase 1) is able to visit
all 255 rooms and its best trajectories collect a mean of 70,264 (CI: 67,287 – 73,150) points (Fig. 9).
We attempted to robustify the best trajectories, but the full-length trajectories found in the exploration
phase did not robustify successfully (Appendix A.11), possibly because different behaviors may
be required for states that are visually hard to distinguish (Appendix A.12). Note that the domainknowledge cell representation does not help in this situation, because the network trained in the
robustification phase (Phase 2) is not presented with the cell representation from the exploration phase
(Phase 1). The network thus has to learn to keep track of past information by itself. Remembering
the past is possible, as the network of the agent does include a fully recurrent layer, but it is unclear
to what degree this layer stores information from previous rooms, especially because the Backward
Algorithm loads the agent at various points in the game without providing the agent with the history
of rooms that came before. This can make it difficult for the agent to learn to store information from
previous states. As such, robustifying these long trajectories remains a topic for future research.
15

60,000

Go-Explore

Domain Knowledge
No Domain Knowledge

50,000

Expert Human

Score

40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0

Avg. Human
DQNPrior. DQN
DQN-CTS
PixelCNN
Rainbow Ape-X IMPALA RND
DDQN
DQN
C51
Pop-Art
A3C
DeepCS
Reactor UBE
Duel. DQN A3C-CTS

2015

2016

2017

Time of publication

2018

2019

Figure 10: Historical progress on Pitfall vs. the version of Go-Explore that harnesses domain
knowledge. Go-Explore achieves a mean of over 59,000 points, greatly outperforming the prior state
of the art. The data are presented in tabular form in Appendix A.9.
We found that shorter trajectories scoring roughly 35,824 (CI: 34,225 – 37,437) points could be
successfully robustified. To obtain these shorter trajectories, we truncated all trajectories in the
archive produced in Phase 1 to 9,000 training frames (down from the total of 18,000 training frames),
and then selected the highest scoring trajectory out of these truncated trajectories. We then further
truncated this highest scoring trajectory such that it would end right after the collection of the last
obtained reward, to ensure that the Backward Algorithm would always start right before obtaining a
reward, resulting in trajectories with a mean length of 8,304 (CI: 8,118 – 8,507) training frames.
From the truncated trajectories, the robustification phase (Phase 2) of Go-Explore is able to produce
agents that collect 59,494 (CI: 49,042 – 72,721) points (mean over 10 independent runs), substantially
outperforming both the prior state of the art and human experts (Fig. 10). These trajectories required
a mean of 8.20B (CI: 6.73B – 9.74B) game frames to robustify, which took a mean of 4.5 (CI: 3.7 –
5.3) days. The best rollout of the best robustified policy obtained a score of 107,363 points, and a
video of this rollout is available at: https://youtu.be/IJMdYOnsDpA.
Interestingly, the mean performance of the robustified networks of 59,494 is higher than the maximum
performance among the demonstration trajectories of 45,643. This score difference is too large to be
the result of small optimizations along the example trajectories (e.g. by avoiding more of the negative
rewards in the environment), thus suggesting that, as with Montezuma’s Revenge, these policies are
able to generalize well beyond the example trajectories they were provided.

4

Discussion and Future Work

Three key principles enable Go-Explore to perform so well on hard-exploration problems: (1) remember good exploration stepping stones, (2) first return to a state, then explore and, (3) first solve a
problem, then robustify (if necessary).
These principles do not exist in most RL algorithms, but it would be interesting to weave them in.
As discussed in Section 1, contemporary RL algorithms do not do follow principle 1, leading to
detachment. Number 2 is important because current RL algorithms explore by randomly perturbing
the parameters or actions of the current policy in the hope of exploring new areas of the environment,
which is ineffective when most changes break or substantially change a policy such that it cannot
first return to hard-to-reach states before further exploring from them (an issue we call derailment).
Go-Explore solves this problem by first returning to a state and then exploring from there. Doing so
16

enables deep exploration that can find a solution to the problem, which can then be robustified to
produce a reliable policy (principle number 3).
The idea of preserving and exploring from stepping stones in an archive comes from the quality
diversity (QD) family of algorithms (like MAP-elites [60, 79] and novelty search with local competition [80]), and Go-Explore is an enhanced QD algorithm based on MAP-Elites. However, previous
QD algorithms focus on exploring the space of behaviors by randomly perturbing the current archive
of policies (in effect departing from a stepping stone in policy space rather than in state space), as
opposed to explicitly exploring state space by departing to explore anew from precisely where in state
space a previous exploration left off. In effect, Go-Explore offers significantly more controlled exploration of state space than other QD methods by ensuring that the scope of exploration is cumulative
through state space as each new exploratory trajectory departs from the endpoint of a previous one.
It is remarkable that the current version of Go-Explore works by taking entirely random actions during
exploration (without any neural network) and that it is effective even when applied on a very simple
discretization of the state space. Its success despite such surprisingly simplistic exploration strongly
suggests that remembering and exploring from good stepping stones is a key to effective exploration,
and that doing so even with otherwise naive exploration helps the search more than contemporary
deep RL methods for finding new states and representing those states. Go-Explore might be made
even more powerful by combining it with effective, learned representations. It could further benefit
from replacing the current random exploration with more intelligent exploration policies, which
would allow the efficient reuse of skills required for exploration (e.g. walking). Both of these possible
improvements are promising avenues for future work.
Go-Explore also demonstrates how exploration and dealing with environmental stochasticity are
problems that can be solved separately by first performing exploration in a deterministic environment
and then robustifying relevant solutions. The reliance on having access to a deterministic environment
may initially seem like a drawback of Go-Explore, but we emphasize that deterministic environments
are available in many popular RL domains, including videos games, robotic simulators, or even
learned world models. Once a brittle solution is found, or especially a diverse set of brittle solutions,
a robust solution can then be produced in simulation. If the ultimate goal is a policy for the real
world (e.g. in robotics), one can then use any of the many available techniques for transferring the
robust policy from simulation to the real world [59, 60, 81]. In addition, we expect that future work
will demonstrate that it is possible to substitute exploiting determinism to return to states with a
goal-conditioned policy [62, 63] that learns to deal with stochastic environments from the start (during
training). Such an algorithm would still benefit from the first two principles of Go-Explore, and
possibly the third too, as even a goal-conditioned policy could benefit from additional optimization
once the desired goal is known.
A possible objection is that, while this method already works in the high-dimensional domain of
Atari-from-pixels, it might not scale to truly high-dimensional domains like simulations of the real
world. We believe Go-Explore can be adapted to such high-dimensional domains, but it will likely
have to marry a more intelligent cell representation of interestingly different states (e.g. learned,
compressed representations of the world) with intelligent (instead of random) exploration. Indeed,
the more conflation (mapping more states to the same cell) one does, the more probable it is that one
will need intelligent exploration to reach such qualitatively different cells.
Though our current implementation of Go-Explore can handle the deceptive reward structure found
in Pitfall, its exploitation of determinism makes it vulnerable to a new form of deception we call the
“busy-highway problem.” Consider an environment in which the agent needs to cross a busy highway.
One option is to traverse the highway directly on foot, but that creates so much risk of being hit by a
car that no policy could reliably cross this way. A safer alternative would be to take a bridge that
goes over the highway, which would constitute a detour, but be guaranteed to succeed. By making the
environment deterministic for Phase 1, the current version of Go-Explore would eventually succeed in
traversing the highway directly, leading to a much shorter trajectory than by taking the bridge. Thus
all the solutions chosen for robustification will be ones that involve crossing the highway directly
instead of taking the bridge, making robustification impossible.
One solution to this issue would be to provide robustification with more demonstrations from Phase 1
of Go-Explore (which could include some that take the bridge instead of crossing the highway), or
even all of the trajectories it gathers during Phase 1. With this approach, robustification would be
able to fall back on the bridge trajectories when the highway trajectories fail to robustify. While this

17

approach should help, it may still be the case that so much of the experience gathered by Go-Explore
Phase 1 is dependent on trajectories that are impossible to reproduce reliably that learning from
these Go-Explore trajectories is less efficient than learning from scratch. How common this class of
problem is in practice is an empirical question and an interesting subject for future work. However,
we hypothesize that versions of Go-Explore that deal with stochasticity throughout training (e.g. by
training goal-conditioned policies to return to states) would not be affected by this issue, as they
would not succeed in crossing the highway reliably except by taking the bridge.
One promising area for future work is robotics. Many problems in robotics, such as figuring out the
right way to grasp an object, how to open doors, or how to locomote, are hard-exploration problems.
Even harder are tasks that require long sequences of actions, such as asking a robot to find survivors,
clean a house, or get a drink from the refrigerator. Go-Explore could enable a robot to learn how to
do these things in simulation. Because conducting learning in the real world is slow and may damage
the robot, most robotic work already involves first optimizing in a simulator and then transferring the
policy to the real world [59–61, 82]. Go-Explore’s ability to exploit determinism can then be helpful
because robotic simulators could be made deterministic for Phase 1 of Go-Explore. The full pipeline
could look like the following: (1) Solve the problem in a deterministic simulator via Phase 1 of
Go-Explore. (2) Robustify the policy in simulation by adding stochasticity to the simulation via Phase
2 of Go-Explore. (3) Transfer the policies to the real world, optionally adding techniques to help
cross the simulation-reality gap [59–61], including optionally further learning via these techniques or
any learning algorithm. Of course, this pipeline could also be changed to using a goal-conditioned
version of Go-Explore if appropriate. Overall, we are optimistic that Go-Explore may make many
previously unsolvable robotics problems solvable, and we are excited to see future research in this
area from our group and others.
Interestingly, the Go-Explore algorithm has implications and applications beyond solving sparse- or
deceptive-reward problems. The algorithm’s ability to broadly explore the state space can unearth
important facets of the domain that go beyond reward, e.g. the distribution of states that contain a
particular agent (e.g. a game character or robot) or are near to catastrophic outcomes. For example,
within AI safety [5] one open problem is that of safe exploration [83], wherein the process of training
an effective real-world policy is constrained by avoiding catastrophe-causing actions during that
training. In the robotics setting where Go-Explore is applied in simulation (before attempting transfer
to the real world), the algorithm could be driven explicitly to search for diverse simulated catastrophes
(in addition to or instead of reward). Such a catastrophe collection could then be leveraged to train
agents that act more carefully in the real world, especially while learning [84, 85]. Beyond this
example, there are likely many other possibilities for how the data produced by Go-Explore could be
productively put to use (e.g. as a source of data for generative models, to create auxiliary objectives
for policy training, or for understanding other agents in the environment by inverse reinforcement
learning).

5

Related Work

Go-Explore is reminiscent of earlier work that separates exploration and exploitation (e.g. Colas et al.
[86]), in which exploration follows a reward-agnostic Goal Exploration Process [87] (an algorithm
similar to novelty search [7]), from which experience is collected to prefill the replay buffer of an
off-policy RL algorithm, in this case DDPG [88]. This algorithm then extracts the highest-rewarding
policy from the experience gathered. In contrast, Go-Explore further decomposes exploration into
three elements: Accumulate stepping stones (interestingly different states), return to promising
stepping stones, and explore from them in search of additional stepping stones (i.e. principles 1 and 2
above). The impressive results Go-Explore achieves by slotting in very simple algorithms for each
element shows the value of this decomposition.
The aspect of Go-Explore of first finding a solution and then robustifying around it has precedent in
Guided Policy Search [89]. However, this method requires a non-deceptive, non-sparse, differentiable
loss function to find solutions, meaning it cannot be applied directly to problems where rewards
are discrete, sparse, or deceptive, as both Atari and many real-world problems are. Further, Guided
Policy Search requires having a differentiable model of the world or learning a set of local models,
which to be tractable requires the full state of the system to be observable during training time.
18

More recently, Oh et al. [90] combined A2C with a “Self-Imitation Learning” loss on the best trajectories found during training. This is reminiscent of Go-Explore’s robustification phase, except for the
fact that Self-Imitation Learning’s imitation loss is used throughout learning, while imitation learning
is a separate phase in Go-Explore. Self-Imitation Learning’s 2,500 point score on Montezuma’s
Revenge was close to the state of the art at the time of its publication.
Another algorithm that is related to the idea of first returning before exploring is Bootstrapped
DQN [91]. It trains an ensemble of networks that approximate the Q function, but with bootstrapping
the data so each network is trained on a different random subset of the data. Each training episode, it
picks one of the networks and acts according to the policy it implies. In frequently visited areas of the
search space, all of the networks will have lots of data and are likely to converge to the same policy
(thus, exploration will be low). However, in rarely visited areas of the state space, the networks would
ideally have different Q-value predictions, meaning that in different episodes different choices will be
made, yielding exploration. At a high level, the dynamics can thus allow an agent to first return to an
area of the search space with little exploration before exploring from it. That said, this algorithm will
still try to focus on returning to one narrow area of the search space (the one it is currently exploring,
see the flashlight metaphor of IM algorithms in Section 1) before exploring, and thus is still likely to
suffer from the issue of detachment described in Section 1. Indeed, empirically Bootstrapped DQN
scores only 100 on Montezuma’s Revenge, and detachment may be a large reason why.
Recall Traces [92] also implement the idea of returning to previously discovered states. They do so
by running a backtracking model to create virtual trajectories towards states heuristically considered
valuable and they include those virtual trajectories during training with the help of an imitation
learning loss, thereby increasing the likelihood that these states will be revisited and explored from.
Contrary to Go-Explore, Recall Traces do not separate returning to states and exploring from those
states, thus the algorithm helps ameliorate detachment, but not derailment. The method improved
sample efficiency in several sparse reward domains, but was not tested on Montezuma’s Revenge or
Pitfall.
Closely related to the first two principles of Go-Explore is the work by Liu et al. [43], which takes
a hierarchical reinforcement learning approach in which an abstract MDP is created through the
conflation of multiple states into abstract states, which are similar to the cells in Go-Explore. This
abstract MDP stores all abstract states (i.e. cells) that it encounters, thus keeping track of promising
states to explore from, and it navigates the MDP in a reliable way before exploring from a selected
abstract-MDP state, thus implementing the idea of returning before exploring. One difference with
Go-Explore is that this algorithm does not use a trajectory of actions to return to a cell, but instead
relies on a set of sub-policies, called skills, which are executed in sequence to navigate the abstract
MDP. While this set of skills is flexible, in that it allows the same skill to be reused for different
transitions, it takes time to train a new skill, potentially making it computationally expensive to
explore as deep into the game as Go-Explore does. Another difference is that the algorithm by Liu
et al. [43] does not implement a robustification phase, but instead relies on the abstract MDP, even
at evaluation time. While this means the algorithm does not require any additional training, it also
means the algorithm can never improve upon the limits of the constructed MDP. The algorithm
from Liu et al. [43], which harnesses domain knowledge, scores 12,500 on Montezuma’s Revenge
and 15,000 on Pitfall, though these scores come from evaluation in the deterministic version of the
environment (they do provide results on stochastic test environments for a different game: Private
Eye). Go-Explore scores substantially more in both Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall despite being
tested in a stochastic environment and, in the case of Montezuma’s Revenge, even when not relying
on domain knowledge.
In a similar vein, Dong et al. [93] maintains an explicit memory of novel states and explores after
returning to them via a goal-conditioned policy, though their algorithm only reaches scores of around
1,000 on Montezuma’s Revenge, substantially less than Go-Explore. We speculate that this is due to
(1) Its use of a fixed-capacity pool of potential next states to visit, which might not be able to keep up
with the large number of possible interestingly different states present in Montezuma’s Revenge, and
(2) By determining whether a goal is reached based on a pixel based measure, their goal-conditioned
policy could have a hard time learning to return to a previously visited state, as the pixel-based
match requires all moving objects, such as enemies, to be in very similar locations before a goal is
considered reached. The insights of keeping an archive of known states and exploring to discover
new states to add to the archive dates back at least to the E 3 algorithm [94], although the E 3 authors
note that it does not work in high-dimensional problems for which tabular methods are intractable

19

and function approximation (or some form of conflation) is required. Go-Explore can be seen as an
E 3 -like algorithm that adapts some of its principles to high-dimensional domains.
The idea of planning (searching in a deterministic model of the world to find a good strategy) and then
training a policy to mimic what was learned is reminiscent of Guo et al. [95]. It plans (in the Atari
emulator) with UCT [47–49], which is slow, and then trains a much faster policy with supervised
learning to imitate the planning algorithm. At first glance it seems that in Guo et al. [95] UCT serves
a similar role to the exploration phase in Go-Explore, but UCT is quite different in several ways that
make it inferior for domains that are either high-dimensional or hard-exploration. That is true even
though UCT does have a form of exploration bonus.
UCT plans in a model of the world so as to decide on the next action to take in the real environment.
An exploration bonus is used during the planning phase, but only extrinsic rewards are considered
when choosing the next action to take. This approach can improve performance in domains with
relatively dense rewards, but fails in sparse rewards domains as rewards are likely to be beyond the
planning horizon of the algorithm. Once planning what to do from one state is done, an action is
taken and the planning process is run again from the next state. UCT does not try to explore all states,
and each run of UCT is independent of which states were visited in previous planning steps. As such,
UCT (either within an episode, or across episodes) does not try to discover new terrain: instead its
exploration bonus only helps it within the current short-horizon planning phase. As mentioned in
Section 1, UCT scores 0 on Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall [30, 51].
Another approach to planning is Fractal Monte Carlo (FMC) [96]. When choosing the next action,
it takes into account both the expected reward and novelty of that action, and in that way is more
similar to Go-Explore. In FMC, a planning process is initiated from each state the agent visits.
Planning is done within a deterministic version of the game emulator. A fixed number of workers are
started in the state from which planning is occurring, and they perform random walks in state space.
Periodically, workers that have accumulated lower reward and/or are in less novel states are replaced
by “clones” of more successful workers. Novelty is approximated as the Euclidean distance of the
worker’s state (in the original, raw, observation space) to that of a randomly selected other worker.
FMC reaches a score of 5,600 on Montezuma’s Revenge, substantially higher than UCT. We believe
this increased performance is due to at least three factors: (1) its planning process puts more emphasis
on depth than breadth due to its finite amount of workers as opposed to the exponential branching
factor that UCT needs to handle; (2) it favors novel states within a planning iteration, so actions that
lead to hard-to-reach states such as jumping an enemy are more likely to be chosen; (3) having an
exploration bonus based on Euclidean distance is more informative than UCT’s exact-match state
bonus, because more distant states are recognized as being more novel than states that differ by,
say, one pixel. One major reason we believe FMC performs worse than Go-Explore is because,
like UCT, it restarts its planning process from scratch each time an action is taken. That means it
can cycle indefinitely between the same few states, because it does not have a means over time of
remembering which states it has visited in order to attempt to explore all states, and instead must
rely on random chance to break out of cycling. This phenomenon is apparent when watching its
agent play: https://youtu.be/FgaXa0uCBR4. Although its greater focus on depth rather than
breadth versus UCT extends its planning horizon enough to reach the first few rewards available in
Montezuma’s Revenge, that seemingly was insufficient for it to reach the even sparser rewards found
later in the game that are easily found by Go-Explore.
On Pitfall, SOORL [44] was the first planning algorithm to achieve a non-zero score, but did so
in a deterministic test environment. It does so through a combination of learning a model of the
environment, domain knowledge, and a value function that is optimistic about the value of unseen
states, thus effectively providing an exploration bonus. At the end of 50 episodes of training, which
was the maximum reported number of episodes, SOORL achieves an average of about 200 points
across runs, and its best run scored an average of 606.6 with a maximum of 4,000.
Another way to view Phase 1 of Go-Explore is as being similar to a graph-search algorithm over
nodes that are made up of the conflated states, and with unknown edges between the different
nodes, meaning that nodes can never fully be marked as “closed”. Specifically, the algorithm has
to empirically discover the existence of an edge between two nodes, for example by executing a
sequence of random actions that leads from one node to another node, and, as a result, it is never
clear whether a node is closed because it is always possible that additional edges from this node exist,
but that they have not been discovered yet. Prioritizing which nodes to explore by assigning a weight

20

to them is reminiscent of graph-search algorithms such as Dijkstra’s algorithm [97] and A* [98].
Graph-search algorithms as a means of exploration in planning have been investigated in algorithms
such as Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (RRTs) [99], which were recently used to explore Atari
games by Zhan et al. [100]. Indeed, Go-Explore exhibits important similarities with RRTs as they
both keep track of an archive of states and trajectories to those states. However, there are some crucial
differences, including: (1) RRTs proceed by first sampling a goal to attempt to reach, which can be
impractical in environments where reachable states are not known a priori (and which is particularly
pernicious in high-dimensional state spaces, such as pixels or even learned encodings, where most
randomly selected goals are unreachable), such as Atari, and (2) RRTs do not have the concept of
“cells” present in Go-Explore and thus RRTs can add many very similar states to their archive that
do little to help the algorithm reach meaningfully different unexplored areas of the search space. In
general, we believe that Go-Explore points to an interesting future research direction in adapting the
principles behind graph-search algorithms to high dimensional state spaces.
Even more distantly related are the many variants of intrinsically motivated model-free reinforcement
learning algorithms. The relation between Go-Explore and these algorithms is discussed in Section 1
and many specific algorithms are included in our comparison in Appendix A.9, as they account for
most of the high-scoring work on Montezuma’s Revenge prior to Go-Explore.

6

Conclusion

Go-Explore represents an exciting new family of algorithms for solving hard-exploration reinforcement learning problems, meaning those with sparse and/or deceptive rewards. It opens up a large
number of new research directions beyond the simple version described in this paper, including
experimenting with different archives, different methods for choosing which cells to return to, different cell representations, different exploration methods, and different robustification methods. We
expect Go-Explore will accelerate progress in a variety of challenging domains such as robotics. It
will also be interesting to see not only the domains in which it excels, but also those in which it
fails. Go-Explore thus opens a new playground of possibilities for future research, and we hope the
community will join us in investigating this new terrain.
Acknowledgments
We thank the following for helpful discussions on the Go-Explore algorithm and the ideas behind
it: Peter Dayan, Zoubin Ghahramani, Shimon Whiteson, Juergen Schmidhuber, Ian Osband, and
Kevin Clune. We also appreciate input from all of the members of Uber AI Labs, especially Vashisht
Madhavan, Felipe Petroski Such, John Sears, and Thomas Miconi. We are also deeply appreciative
of the machine learning community at large for providing feedback that refined our thinking and
exposition of Go-Explore, including all of those that provided commentary on Reddit, Twitter, and via
other online mediums such as blog posts about our work. Finally, we are grateful to Leon Rosenshein,
Joel Snow, Thaxton Beesley, the Colorado Data Center team and the entire OpusStack Team at Uber
for providing our computing platform and for technical support.

References
[1] David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George Van Den Driessche,
Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Veda Panneershelvam, Marc Lanctot, et al. Mastering the game
of go with deep neural networks and tree search. Nature, 529(7587):484–489, 2016.
[2] David Silver, Julian Schrittwieser, Karen Simonyan, Ioannis Antonoglou, Aja Huang, Arthur Guez,
Thomas Hubert, L Robert Baker, Matthew Lai, Adrian Bolton, Yutian Chen, Timothy P. Lillicrap, Fan
Hui, Laurent Sifre, George van den Driessche, Thore Graepel, and Demis Hassabis. Mastering the game
of go without human knowledge. Nature, 550:354–359, 2017.
[3] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G Bellemare,
Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, Stig Petersen, Charles Beattie,
Amir Sadik, Ioannis Antonoglou, Helen King, Dharshan Kumaran, Daan Wierstra, Shane Legg, and
Demis Hassabis. Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning. Nature, 518(7540):529–533,
2015.
[4] Marc Bellemare, Sriram Srinivasan, Georg Ostrovski, Tom Schaul, David Saxton, and Remi Munos.
Unifying count-based exploration and intrinsic motivation. In NIPS, pages 1471–1479, 2016.

21

[5] Dario Amodei, Chris Olah, Jacob Steinhardt, Paul F. Christiano, John Schulman, and Dan Mané. Concrete
problems in ai safety. CoRR, abs/1606.06565, 2016.
[6] Joel Lehman, Jeff Clune, Dusan Misevic, Christoph Adami, Julie Beaulieu, Peter J. Bentley, Samuel
Bernard, Guillaume Beslon, David M. Bryson, Patryk Chrabaszcz, Nick Cheney, Antoine Cully, Stéphane
Doncieux, Fred C. Dyer, Kai Olav Ellefsen, Robert Feldt, Stephan Fischer, Stephanie Forrest, Antoine
Frénoy, Christian Gagné, Leni K. Le Goff, Laura M. Grabowski, Babak Hodjat, Frank Hutter, Laurent
Keller, Carole Knibbe, Peter Krcah, Richard E. Lenski, Hod Lipson, Robert B MacCurdy, Carlos Maestre,
Risto Miikkulainen, Sara Mitri, David E. Moriarty, Jean-Baptiste Mouret, Anh Tuan Le Nguyen, Charles
Ofria, Marc Parizeau, David P. Parsons, Robert T. Pennock, William F. Punch, Thomas S. Ray, Marc
Schoenauer, Eric Shulte, Karl Sims, Kenneth O. Stanley, François Taddei, Danesh Tarapore, Simon
Thibault, Westley Weimer, Richard Watson, and Jason Yosinksi. The surprising creativity of digital
evolution: A collection of anecdotes from the evolutionary computation and artificial life research
communities. CoRR, abs/1803.03453, 2018.
[7] Joel Lehman and Kenneth O. Stanley. Novelty search and the problem with objectives. In Genetic
Programming Theory and Practice IX (GPTP 2011), 2011.
[8] Patryk Chrabaszcz, Ilya Loshchilov, and Frank Hutter. Back to basics: Benchmarking canonical evolution
strategies for playing atari. In IJCAI, 2018.
[9] Jürgen Schmidhuber. A possibility for implementing curiosity and boredom in model-building neural
controllers. In Proc. of the international conference on simulation of adaptive behavior: From animals to
animats, pages 222–227, 1991.
[10] Pierre-Yves Oudeyer and Frederic Kaplan. What is intrinsic motivation? a typology of computational
approaches. Frontiers in Neurorobotics, 1:6, 2009.
[11] Andrew G Barto. Intrinsic motivation and reinforcement learning. In Intrinsically motivated learning in
natural and artificial systems, pages 17–47. Springer, 2013.
[12] Jürgen Schmidhuber. Developmental robotics, optimal artificial curiosity, creativity, music, and the fine
arts. Connect. Sci., 18:173–187, 2006.
[13] Jürgen Schmidhuber. Curious model-building control systems. In Neural Networks, 1991. 1991 IEEE
International Joint Conference on, pages 1458–1463. IEEE, 1991.
[14] Edoardo Conti, Vashisht Madhavan, Felipe Petroski Such, Joel Lehman, Kenneth O. Stanley, and Jeff
Clune. Improving exploration in evolution strategies for deep reinforcement learning via a population of
novelty-seeking agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.06560, 2017.
[15] Joshua Achiam and S. Shankar Sastry. Surprise-based intrinsic motivation for deep reinforcement learning.
CoRR, abs/1703.01732, 2017.
[16] Yuri Burda, Harrison Edwards, Amos Storkey, and Oleg Klimov. Exploration by random network
distillation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.12894, 2018.
[17] Roby Velez and Jeff Clune. Diffusion-based neuromodulation can eliminate catastrophic forgetting in
simple neural networks. PloS one, 12(11):e0187736, 2017.
[18] Kai Olav Ellefsen, Jean-Baptiste Mouret, Jeff Clune, and Josh C Bongard. Neural modularity helps
organisms evolve to learn new skills without forgetting old skills. PLoS Comput Biol, 11(4):e1004128,
2015.
[19] James Kirkpatrick, Razvan Pascanu, Neil Rabinowitz, Joel Veness, Guillaume Desjardins, Andrei A Rusu,
Kieran Milan, John Quan, Tiago Ramalho, Agnieszka Grabska-Barwinska, et al. Overcoming catastrophic
forgetting in neural networks. Proceedings of the national academy of sciences, page 201611835, 2017.
[20] Robert M French. Catastrophic forgetting in connectionist networks. Trends in cognitive sciences, 3(4):
128–135, 1999.
[21] Shangtong Zhang and Richard S. Sutton. A deeper look at experience replay. CoRR, abs/1712.01275,
2017.
[22] Ruishan Liu and James Zou.
abs/1710.06574, 2017.

The effects of memory replay in reinforcement learning.

CoRR,

[23] Richard S Sutton and Andrew G Barto. Reinforcement learning: An introduction, volume 1. Bradford,
1998.

22

[24] Matthias Plappert, Rein Houthooft, Prafulla Dhariwal, Szymon Sidor, Richard Y Chen, Xi Chen, Tamim
Asfour, Pieter Abbeel, and Marcin Andrychowicz. Parameter space noise for exploration. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1706.01905, 2017.
[25] Thomas Rückstieß, Martin Felder, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. State-dependent exploration for policy
gradient methods. In ECML/PKDD, 2008.
[26] Todd Hester, Matej Vecerik, Olivier Pietquin, Marc Lanctot, Tom Schaul, Bilal Piot, Dan Horgan,
John Quan, Andrew Sendonaris, Ian Osband, Gabriel Dulac-Arnold, John Agapiou, Joel Z. Leibo, and
Audrunas Gruslys. Deep q-learning from demonstrations. In AAAI, 2018.
[27] Tobias Pohlen, Bilal Piot, Todd Hester, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Dan Horgan, David Budden,
Gabriel Barth-Maron, Hado van Hasselt, John Quan, Mel Večerík, et al. Observe and look further:
Achieving consistent performance on atari. arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.11593, 2018.
[28] Tim Salimans and Richard Chen. Learning montezuma’s revenge from a single demonstration. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1812.03381, 2018.
[29] Jonathan Ho and Stefano Ermon. Generative adversarial imitation learning. In NIPS, 2016.
[30] Marc G Bellemare, Yavar Naddaf, Joel Veness, and Michael Bowling. The arcade learning environment:
An evaluation platform for general agents. J. Artif. Intell. Res.(JAIR), 47:253–279, 2013.
[31] Marlos C. Machado, Marc G. Bellemare, Erik Talvitie, Joel Veness, Matthew J. Hausknecht, and
Michael H. Bowling. Revisiting the arcade learning environment: Evaluation protocols and open
problems for general agents. J. Artif. Intell. Res., 61:523–562, 2018.
[32] Adrià Garriga Alonso. Solving montezuma’s revenge with planning and reinforcement learning, 2017.
[33] Haoran Tang, Rein Houthooft, Davis Foote, Adam Stooke, OpenAI Xi Chen, Yan Duan, John Schulman, Filip DeTurck, and Pieter Abbeel. # exploration: A study of count-based exploration for deep
reinforcement learning. In NIPS, pages 2750–2759, 2017.
[34] Audrunas Gruslys, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Marc G Bellemare, and Remi Munos. The reactor: A
sample-efficient actor-critic architecture. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.04651, 2017.
[35] Jarryd Martin, Suraj Narayanan Sasikumar, Tom Everitt, and Marcus Hutter. Count-based exploration in
feature space for reinforcement learning. In IJCAI, 2017.
[36] Georg Ostrovski, Marc G. Bellemare, Aäron van den Oord, and Rémi Munos. Count-based exploration
with neural density models. In ICML, 2017.
[37] Christopher Stanton and Jeff Clune. Deep curiosity search: Intra-life exploration improves performance
on challenging deep reinforcement learning problems. CoRR, abs/1806.00553, 2018.
[38] Brendan O’Donoghue, Ian Osband, Rémi Munos, and Volodymyr Mnih. The uncertainty bellman equation
and exploration. In ICML, 2018.
[39] Jongwook Choi, Yijie Guo, Marcin Moczulski, Junhyuk Oh, Neal Wu, Mohammad Norouzi, and Honglak
Lee. Contingency-aware exploration in reinforcement learning. CoRR, abs/1811.01483, 2018.
[40] Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Timothy Lillicrap, Tim Harley,
David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In ICML,
pages 1928–1937, 2016.
[41] Dan Horgan, John Quan, David Budden, Gabriel Barth-Maron, Matteo Hessel, Hado van Hasselt, and
David Silver. Distributed prioritized experience replay. CoRR, abs/1803.00933, 2018.
[42] Lasse Espeholt, Hubert Soyer, Rémi Munos, Karen Simonyan, Volodymyr Mnih, Tom Ward, Yotam
Doron, Vlad Firoiu, Tim Harley, Iain Dunning, Shane Legg, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Impala: Scalable
distributed deep-rl with importance weighted actor-learner architectures. In ICML, 2018.
[43] Evan Zheran Liu, Ramtin Keramati, Sudarshan Seshadri, Kelvin Guu, Panupong Pasupat, Emma
Brunskill, and Percy Liang. Learning abstract models for long-horizon exploration, 2019. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=ryxLG2RcYX.
[44] Ramtin Keramati, Jay Whang, Patrick Cho, and Emma Brunskill. Fast exploration with simplified
models and approximately optimistic planning in model based reinforcement learning, 2019. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=HygS7n0cFQ.

23

[45] Yusuf Aytar, Tobias Pfaff, David Budden, Tom Le Paine, Ziyu Wang, and Nando de Freitas. Playing hard
exploration games by watching youtube. arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.11592, 2018.
[46] Felipe Petroski Such, Vashisht Madhavan, Rosanne Liu, Rui Wang, Pablo Samuel Castro, Yulun Li,
Ludwig Schubert, Marc Bellemare, Jeff Clune, and Joel Lehman. An atari model zoo for analyzing,
visualizing, and comparing deep reinforcement learning agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.07069, 2018.
[47] Levente Kocsis and Csaba Szepesvári. Bandit based monte-carlo planning. In ECML, 2006.
[48] Levente Kocsis, Csaba Szepesvári, and Jan Willemson. Improved monte-carlo search. Univ. Tartu,
Estonia, Tech. Rep, 1, 2006.
[49] Cameron Browne, Edward Jack Powley, Daniel Whitehouse, Simon M. Lucas, Peter I. Cowling, Philipp
Rohlfshagen, Stephen Tavener, Diego Perez Liebana, Spyridon Samothrakis, and Simon Colton. A survey
of monte carlo tree search methods. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games,
4:1–43, 2012.
[50] Guillaume Chaslot, Sander Bakkes, István Szita, and Pieter Spronck. Monte-carlo tree search: A new
framework for game ai. In AIIDE, 2008.
[51] Nir Lipovetzky, Miquel Ramírez, and Hector Geffner. Classical planning with simulators: Results on the
atari video games. In IJCAI, 2015.
[52] David Silver, Hado van Hasselt, Matteo Hessel, Tom Schaul, Arthur Guez, Tim Harley, Gabriel DulacArnold, David P. Reichert, Neil C. Rabinowitz, André Barreto, and Thomas Degris. The predictron:
End-to-end learning and planning. In ICML, 2017.
[53] Sascha Lange and Martin Riedmiller. Deep auto-encoder neural networks in reinforcement learning. In
The International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, pages 1–8. IEEE, 2010.
[54] Max Jaderberg, Volodymyr Mnih, Wojciech Czarnecki, Tom Schaul, Joel Z. Leibo, David Silver, and
Koray Kavukcuoglu. Reinforcement learning with unsupervised auxiliary tasks. CoRR, abs/1611.05397,
2016.
[55] Adrien Ecoffet, Joost Huizinga, Joel Lehman, Kenneth O Stanley, and Jeff Clune. Montezuma’s revenge
solved by go-explore, a new algorithm for hard-exploration problems (sets records on pitfall, too). Uber
Engineering Blog, Nov 2018. URL http://eng.uber.com/go-explore.
[56] Rowan McAllister, Gregory Kahn, Jeff Clune, and Sergey Levine. Robustness to out-of-distribution
inputs via task-aware generative uncertainty. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.10687, 2018.
[57] Gregory Kahn, Adam Villaflor, Vitchyr Pong, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Uncertainty-aware
reinforcement learning for collision avoidance. arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01182, 2017.
[58] Brenden M. Lake, Tomer D. Ullman, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Samuel J Gershman. Building machines
that learn and think like people. The Behavioral and brain sciences, 40:e253, 2017.
[59] Sylvain Koos, Jean-Baptiste Mouret, and Stéphane Doncieux. The transferability approach: Crossing the
reality gap in evolutionary robotics. IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 17(1):122–145,
2013.
[60] A. Cully, J. Clune, D. Tarapore, and J.-B. Mouret. Robots that can adapt like animals. Nature, 521:
503–507, 2015. doi: 10.1038/nature14422.
[61] Marcin Andrychowicz, Bowen Baker, Maciek Chociej, Rafal Jozefowicz, Bob McGrew, Jakub Pachocki,
Arthur Petron, Matthias Plappert, Glenn Powell, Alex Ray, et al. Learning dexterous in-hand manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.00177, 2018.
[62] Marcin Andrychowicz, Filip Wolski, Alex Ray, Jonas Schneider, Rachel Fong, Peter Welinder, Bob
McGrew, Josh Tobin, OpenAI Pieter Abbeel, and Wojciech Zaremba. Hindsight experience replay. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 5048–5058, 2017.
[63] Tom Schaul, Daniel Horgan, Karol Gregor, and David Silver. Universal value function approximators. In
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1312–1320, 2015.
[64] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy
optimization algorithms. CoRR, abs/1707.06347, 2017.
[65] Cinjon Resnick, Roberta Raileanu, Sanyam Kapoor, Alex Peysakhovich, Kyunghyun Cho, and Joan
Bruna. Backplay: "man muss immer umkehren". CoRR, abs/1807.06919, 2018.

24

[66] Felipe Petroski Such, Vashisht Madhavan, Edoardo Conti, Joel Lehman, Kenneth O. Stanley, and Jeff
Clune. Deep neuroevolution: Genetic algorithms are a competitive alternative for training deep neural
networks for reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.06567, 2017.
[67] Hado Van Hasselt, Arthur Guez, and David Silver. Deep reinforcement learning with double q-learning.
In AAAI, volume 2, page 5. Phoenix, AZ, 2016.
[68] Ziyu Wang, Nando de Freitas, and Marc Lanctot. Dueling network architectures for deep reinforcement
learning. In ICML, 2016.
[69] Tom Schaul, John Quan, Ioannis Antonoglou, and David Silver. Prioritized experience replay. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1511.05952, 2015.
[70] Hado P van Hasselt, Arthur Guez, Matteo Hessel, Volodymyr Mnih, and David Silver. Learning values
across many orders of magnitude. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 4287–
4295, 2016.
[71] Tim Salimans, Jonathan Ho, Xi Chen, Szymon Sidor, and Ilya Sutskever. Evolution strategies as a scalable
alternative to reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.03864, 2017.
[72] Marc G. Bellemare, Will Dabney, and Rémi Munos. A distributional perspective on reinforcement
learning. In ICML, 2017.
[73] Matteo Hessel, Joseph Modayil, Hado van Hasselt, Tom Schaul, Georg Ostrovski, Will Dabney, Dan
Horgan, Bilal Piot, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, and David Silver. Rainbow: Combining improvements
in deep reinforcement learning. In AAAI, 2018.
[74] Arun Nair, Praveen Srinivasan, Sam Blackwell, Cagdas Alcicek, Rory Fearon, Alessandro De Maria,
Vedavyas Panneershelvam, Mustafa Suleyman, Charles Beattie, Stig Petersen, et al. Massively parallel
methods for deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.04296, 2015.
[75] Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John Schulman, Jie Tang, and
Wojciech Zaremba. Openai gym, 2016.
[76] A. M. Zoubir and D. Robert Iskander. Bootstrap methods and applications. IEEE Signal Processing
Magazine, 24:10–19, 2007.
[77] Atari vcs/2600 easter egg list, 2018. URL http://www.ataricompendium.com/game_library/
easter_eggs/vcs/easter_eggs.html.
[78] Atari vcs/2600 scoreboard, Dec 2018. URL http://www.ataricompendium.com/game_library/
high_scores/high_scores.html.
[79] Jean-Baptiste Mouret and Jeff Clune. Illuminating search spaces by mapping elites. ArXiv e-prints,
abs/1504.04909, 2015. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.04909.
[80] Joel Lehman and Kenneth O. Stanley. Evolving a diversity of virtual creatures through novelty search
and local competition. In GECCO ’11: Proceedings of the 13th annual conference on Genetic and
evolutionary computation, pages 211–218, 2011.
[81] Josh Tobin, Rachel Fong, Alex Ray, Jonas Schneider, Wojciech Zaremba, and Pieter Abbeel. Domain
randomization for transferring deep neural networks from simulation to the real world. In Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on, pages 23–30. IEEE, 2017.
[82] S. Lee, J. Yosinski, K. Glette, H. Lipson, and J. Clune. Evolving gaits for physical robots with the
hyperneat generative encoding: the benefits of simulation. In Applications of Evolutionary Computing.
Springer, 2013.
[83] Javier Garcıa and Fernando Fernández. A comprehensive survey on safe reinforcement learning. Journal
of Machine Learning Research, 16(1):1437–1480, 2015.
[84] Zachary C Lipton, Kamyar Azizzadenesheli, Abhishek Kumar, Lihong Li, Jianfeng Gao, and Li Deng.
Combating reinforcement learning’s sisyphean curse with intrinsic fear. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.01211,
2016.
[85] William Saunders, Girish Sastry, Andreas Stuhlmueller, and Owain Evans. Trial without error: Towards
safe reinforcement learning via human intervention. In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, pages 2067–2069. International Foundation for
Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2018.

25

[86] Cédric Colas, Olivier Sigaud, and Pierre-Yves Oudeyer. GEP-PG: Decoupling Exploration and Exploitation in Deep Reinforcement Learning Algorithms. In International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML), Stockholm, Sweden, July 2018. URL https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01890151.
[87] Sébastien Forestier, Yoan Mollard, and Pierre-Yves Oudeyer. Intrinsically motivated goal exploration
processes with automatic curriculum learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.02190, 2017.
[88] Timothy P. Lillicrap, Jonathan J. Hunt, Alexander Pritzel, Nicolas Heess, Tom Erez, Yuval Tassa, David
Silver, and Daan Wierstra. Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning. CoRR, abs/1509.02971,
2015.
[89] Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter Abbeel. End-to-end training of deep visuomotor
policies. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(1):1334–1373, 2016.
[90] Junhyuk Oh, Yijie Guo, Satinder Singh, and Honglak Lee. Self-imitation learning. In ICML, 2018.
[91] Ian Osband, Charles Blundell, Alexander Pritzel, and Benjamin Van Roy. Deep exploration via bootstrapped dqn. In NIPS, 2016.
[92] Anirudh Goyal, Philemon Brakel, William Fedus, Timothy P. Lillicrap, Sergey Levine, Hugo Larochelle,
and Yoshua Bengio. Recall traces: Backtracking models for efficient reinforcement learning. CoRR,
abs/1804.00379, 2018.
[93] Honghua Dong, Jiayuan Mao, Xinyue Cui, and Lihong Li. Explicit recall for efficient exploration, 2019.
URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=B1GIB3A9YX.
[94] Michael Kearns and Satinder Singh. Near-optimal reinforcement learning in polynomial time. Machine
learning, 49(2-3):209–232, 2002.
[95] Xiaoxiao Guo, Satinder P. Singh, Honglak Lee, Richard L. Lewis, and Xiaoshi Wang. Deep learning for
real-time atari game play using offline monte-carlo tree search planning. In NIPS, 2014.
[96] Sergio Hernandez Cerezo and Guillem Duran Ballester. Fractal ai: A fragile theory of intelligence. CoRR,
abs/1803.05049, 2018.
[97] E. W. Dijkstra. A note on two problems in connexion with graphs. Numer. Math., 1(1):269–271,
December 1959. ISSN 0029-599X. doi: 10.1007/BF01386390. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
BF01386390.
[98] P. E. Hart, N. J. Nilsson, and B. Raphael. A formal basis for the heuristic determination of minimum
cost paths. IEEE Transactions on Systems Science and Cybernetics, 4(2):100–107, July 1968. ISSN
0536-1567. doi: 10.1109/TSSC.1968.300136.
[99] Steven M. Lavalle. Rapidly-exploring random trees: A new tool for path planning. Technical report, Iowa
State University, 1998.
[100] Zeping Zhan, Batu Aytemiz, and Adam M Smith. Taking the scenic route: Automatic exploration for
videogames. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.03125, 2018.
[101] David E. Goldberg. Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization and Machine Learning. Addison-Wesley,
Reading, MA, 1989.
[102] Adam Lipowski and Dorota Lipowska. Roulette-wheel selection via stochastic acceptance. CoRR,
abs/1109.3627, 2011.
[103] Marc G. Bellemare, Joel Veness, and Michael H. Bowling. Investigating contingency awareness using
atari 2600 games. In AAAI, 2012.
[104] Bradly C Stadie, Sergey Levine, and Pieter Abbeel. Incentivizing exploration in reinforcement learning
with deep predictive models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.00814, 2015.
[105] Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Timothy Lillicrap, Tim Harley,
David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In
International conference on machine learning, pages 1928–1937, 2016.

26

A

Appendix

A.1

The meaning of “frames”

It is common practice to introduce “frame skipping” during training in the Atari domain, so that the
agent only selects actions every k frames instead of every single frame (the action then persists across
k frames). The most common value of k is 4, and both our exploration and robustification phases
were implemented with frame skipping with k = 4.
Following the recommendations in Petroski Such et al. [66], we call the total number of frames
produced by the underlying emulator “game frames” and the number of frames seen and acted on
by the agent during training “training frames.” It can sometimes be difficult to know whether a
reported number of frames corresponds to training frames or game frames, and the difference can be
significant because the number of game frames is usually 4 times the number of training frames. In
this work, frame counts are always reported as game frames, as recommended by Petroski Such et al.
[66] and Machado et al. [31]. Further, we always qualify the word “frame” with either “training” or
“game.” This clarification is particularly important for the rare cases in which we are indeed referring
to training frames and not game frames, such as in Section 2.1.4, where we mention that in the
exploration phase, actions are repeated with 95% probability each training frame.
A.2

Episode end

In the case of Montezuma’s Revenge, the end of an episode is defined as a loss of life, while in the
case of Pitfall it is the game-over signal. Both definitions of the end of an episode appear in the
literature [31], and our use of differing approaches in Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall was due
to the greater difficulty of tracking room location based on pixels in Montezuma’s Revenge if the
character is allowed to lose lives (a difficulty which does not exist in Pitfall). Additionally, death in
Pitfall grants the agent additional affordances, which is not the case in Montezuma’s Revenge. These
factors are further explained in Appendix A.3 below.
A.3

Extraction of domain knowledge features from pixels

Phase 1 of Go-Explore used the following domain knowledge features: the x, y position of the agent,
the current room, the current level and the rooms in which the currently held keys were found (these
last two only apply to Montezuma’s Revenge). Although these features can be found in RAM, they
were extracted from pixels in our implementation for two reasons: (1) extracting information from
pixels is more similar to how a real world environment would be tackled and ensures we do not
exploit any non-visible information that might be stored in the RAM, and (2) we found that extracting
values from the RAM could be unreliable at times: in Montezuma’s Revenge, when the character
moves into a new room, a black transition image is shown for a few frames. The current room and
current x, y position are updated at different times during these transition frames, so that reading
these values from RAM would give a room number and x, y position that are inconsistent.
The location of the agent could be extracted by training a simple classifier, or in an unsupervised way
through contingency-awareness [39], but it turns out that, in both Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall,
some pixel values only occur in the character sprite, making it trivial to identify the character location
by searching for these values in the current frame. Coincidentally, searching for pixels with a red
channel value of 228 is enough to find the character in both Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall.
Room changes are identified by detecting sudden changes in x, y position: if the character was located
at the far right of the screen and is now located at the far left, it likely moved to a room on the right
of the current room. In the case of Pitfall, additional domain knowledge is required: underground
transitions move the players 3 rooms at a time instead of just 1, and the map wraps around so that the
last room is situated to the left of the first room. In Montezuma’s Revenge, knowledge of the map is
not strictly necessary for room tracking, as the room transition rules are simple, but it is necessary for
level tracking: any transition away from the treasure room is an increase in level.
Loss of life needs to be taken into account when tracking room changes: in Montezuma’s Revenge,
losing a life causes the character to be brought back to the exact location where it entered the room,
so that if the character entered the room from the left and dies on the right of the room, the sudden
change of x value due to the character reviving on the left side of the room could be mistaken for a
27

room change. Handling this behavior is possible, but we believe unnecessarily complicated for our
purposes. For this reason, we end episodes on loss of life in Montezuma’s Revenge. By contrast,
in Pitfall, the character is brought to a fixed location on the left side of the screen that cannot be
confused with a room change, so that there is no need to end the episode on life loss to simplify room
tracking. Further, while losing a life is a strict waste of time in Montezuma’s Revenge since it brings
the agent back to a previously seen location, in Pitfall it can be used as a form of teleportation: if an
agent enters a room from the right and loses a life soon after, it will be teleported all the way to the
left of the room, thus skipping the hazards that may be in the middle. For this reason, we did not
choose to end episodes on life loss in Pitfall.
Finally, key tracking in Montezuma’s Revenge is done simply by pattern-matching for keys in the
section of the screen that shows the current inventory, and tracking the room number associated to
any increase in the current number of keys.
A.4

Filtering out bug trajectories

As mentioned in Section 3.1, we filtered out trajectories that triggered the treasure room bug when
robustifying Montezuma’s Revenge without domain knowledge. Such filtering was not necessary
when using domain knowledge because none of the highest scoring trajectories triggered the bug, as
explained in Section 3.1.2.
The filtering of bug trajectories was done by excluding all trajectories whose level was lower than the
maximum level in the archive. That works because the bug makes it impossible to leave the treasure
room and advance to the next level, so any trajectory that makes it to a new level did not trigger the
bug in the previous level.
A.5

Cell selection details

As mentioned in Section 2.1.2, cells are selected at each iteration by first assigning them a score,
which is then normalized across all cells in the archive, yielding the probability of each cell being
selected. The score of a cell is the sum of separate subscores, which we now describe.
One important set of such subscores, called the count subscores, are computed from attributes that
represent the number of times a cell was interacted with in different ways. Specifically: the number
of times a cell has already been chosen (i.e. selected as a cell to explore from), the number of times a
cell was visited at any point during the exploration phase, and the number of times a cell has been
chosen since exploration from it last produced the discovery of a new or better cell. In the case of
each of these attributes, a lower count likely indicates a more promising cell to explore from (e.g. a
cell that has been chosen more times already is less likely to lead to new cells than a cell that has
been chosen fewer times). The count subscore for each of these attributes is given by:

CntScore(c, a) = wa ·

1
v(c, a) + ε1

 pa
+ ε2

(1)

Here c is the cell for which we are calculating the score, v(c, a) is a function that returns the
value of attribute a for cell c, wa is the weight hyperparameter for attribute a, and pa is the power
hyperparameter for attribute a. ε1 helps prevent division by 0 and determines the relative weight of
cells for which a given value is 0. ε2 helps guarantee that no cell ever has a 0 probability of being
chosen. In our implementation, ε1 = 0.001 and ε2 = 0.00001, which we chose after preliminary
experiments showed that they worked well.
When cell representations are informed by domain knowledge (Section 3.1.2), giving us the x, y
position of the agent, it is possible to determine the possible neighbors of given cells, and whether
these neighbors are already present in the archive. For those cases, we define a set of neighbor
subscores. Each neighbor subscore is defined as wn if neighbor n does not exist in the archive, and is
0 otherwise. The motivation behind these neighbor subscores is that cells that are lacking neighbors
are likely at the edge of the current frontier of knowledge and are thus more likely to yield new cells.
We consider 3 types of neighbors: vertical (2 neighbors), horizontal (2 neighbors), and (in the case
of Montezuma’s Revenge) cells that are in the same level, room and x, y position, but are holding
a larger number of keys (the intuition is that if a cell lacks a “more keys” neighbor, then it is the
cell that is most capable of opening doors from its location). Neighbors of the same type share the
28

same value for wn (Table 2). These definitions result in the following neighbor subscore, assuming a
function called HasN eighbor(c, n) which returns 1 if neighbor n of cell c is present in the archive,
and which returns 0 otherwise:
N eighScore(c, n) = wn · (1 − HasN eighbor(c, n))

(2)

In cases without domain knowledge, it is unclear what exactly would constitute a cell’s neighbor, and
so N eighScore is defined as 0 in this case in our experiments.
Finally, in the case of Montezuma’s Revenge with domain knowledge, cells are exponentially
downweighted based on the distance to the maximum level currently reached, thereby favoring
progress in the furthest level reached, while still keeping open the possibility of improving previous
levels’ trajectories:
LevelW eight(c) = 0.1M axLevel−Level(c)
(3)
In the case of Pitfall (where no notion of level exists) and Montezuma’s Revenge without domain
knowledge (where we do not know what the level of a given cell is), LevelW eight is always 1.
The final cell score is then computed as follows:
"
!
X
CellScore(c) = LevelW eight(c) ·
N eighScore(c, n) +
n

!
X

CntScore(c, a)

#
+1

a

(4)
Note that CellScore(c) > 0 for all cells c. The cell selection probability is given by:
CellScore(c)
0
c0 CellScore(c )

CellP rob(c) = P

(5)

Hyperparameters (the different values of wa , pa and wn ) were found through separate grid searches
on each game (Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall) and for each treatment (with or without domain
knowledge). Detailed hyperparameter tables are found in Appendix A.6 below.
A.6

Phase 1 hyperparameters

Hyperparameter values were found through grid search. Here, the power hyperparameter pa (see
Section A.5) found by grid search turned out to be 0.5 for all attributes a in every experiment, so
these are excluded from the tables for conciseness.
The “count-based” attributes are as follows: “Times chosen” is the number of times a cell was selected
from the archive so far, “Times chosen since new” is the number of times the cell was selected from
the archive since last time it led to a new cell being found or to a cell being improved, and “Times
seen” is the number of times the cell was seen during exploration, regardless of whether it was chosen.
Table 1 shows the hyperparameters for the runs with downsampled frames, i.e. the ones without
domain knowledge, and Table 2 shows the hyperparameters for the runs with domain knowledge.
Batch size
Downsampled width
Downsampled height
Downsampled pixel range
Times chosen weight (wa=Chosen )
Times chosen since new weight (wa=ChosenSinceN ew )
Times seen weight (wa=Seen )

Montezuma’s Revenge
100
11
8
0-8
0.1
0
0.3

Pitfall
1,000
11
8
0-8
1
1
0

Table 1: Hyperparameter values for Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall without domain knowledge.

29

Batch size
Cell size
Times chosen weight (wa=Chosen )
Times chosen since new weight (wa=ChosenSinceN ew )
Times seen weight (wa=Seen )
Missing neighbor: horizontal (wn∈Horizontal )
Missing neighbor: vertical (wn∈V ertical )
Missing neighbor: more keys (wn∈M oreKeys )

Montezuma’s Revenge
1,000
16 × 16
0
0
0
0.3
0.1
10

Pitfall
1,000
16 × 16
1
0.5
0
1
0
N/A

Table 2: Hyperparameter values for Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall with domain knowledge.
Note: the Atari emulator resolution is 160 × 210, which results in "tall" frames. However, Atari
games were meant to be displayed with wide pixels, resulting in frames wider than they are tall. The
common way to achieve this effect is to duplicate pixels horizontally, resulting in a 320 × 210 frame.
We divide the frame into a 16 × 16 grid after the frame is adjusted to 320 × 210, so that in the original
frame space our cells would be 8 × 16.

A.7
A.7.1

Modifications to the Backward Algorithm
Multiple demonstrations

As mentioned, we modified the Backward Algorithm to robustify with multiple demonstrations,
10 in the case of Montezuma’s Revenge. For Pitfall with domain knowledge (we did not robustify
any trajectories without domain knowledge) and with the truncated trajectories (Section 3.2), we
robustified with 4 demonstrations. We did not robustify the long Pitfall trajectories with multiple
demonstrations. While doing so is expected to improve robustification performance, it is unclear
whether multiple demonstrations would enable successful robustification of the full-length Pitfall
runs, and we leave this question for future work.
Handling multiple demonstrations in the Backwards Algorithm was implemented by choosing
a demonstration uniformly at random each time the Backward Algorithm selects a demonstration state from which to start a rollout. Demonstration-specific information such as the current
max_starting_point (the latest frame in the demonstration that the Backward Algorithm will start
from) and success rates (the proportion of runs starting from a given starting point that performed at
least as well as the demonstration) were tracked separately for each demonstration (see Salimans and
Chen [28] for details on the various attributes used by the Backward Algorithm).
A.7.2

Modified hyperparameters

For robustification, we kept the default hyperparameters given by Salimans and Chen [28], with the
following exceptions: we added random no-ops at the beginning of the trajectory when the starting
point was equal to 0 and we also added sticky actions throughout learning (unless otherwise specified).
In addition, to improve performance when robustifying from multiple demonstrations, we set the
success rate parameter to 0.1 instead of 0.2, and we changed the parameter that determines how
frequently the starting point can be updated to 200 · nDemos steps instead of a fixed 1024 steps. To
avoid cases where the reward would be hard to find from the first checkpoint (i.e. the checkpoint
closest to the end of the game), we also changed an internal starting-frame parameter (i.e. the number
of frames before the end that the backward process would start robustifying from) from 256 to 0. We
found that these parameters seemed to work better empirically, though we did not experiment with
them extensively.
A.7.3

Pitfall-specific changes

The small negative rewards in combination with the large positive rewards encountered on Pitfall
required two additional changes in this particular game. The first change is to replace reward clipping
with reward scaling: instead of rewards being clipped to the range [-1, 1], rewards are multiplied
by 0.001. This change was necessary because, in Pitfall, negative rewards can have values as small
as -1 while positive rewards have values between 2,000 and 5,000. Because negative rewards are
30

so common and positive rewards so rare, clipping rewards gives a huge relative boost to avoiding
negative rewards relative to obtaining positive rewards, which makes learning nearly impossible.
With reward scaling, the relative importance of the two types of rewards is preserved, and learning
succeeds. The scaling factor of 0.001 for Pitfall’s rewards creates a reward range similar to that of
clipped rewards, facilitating the use of the same hyperparameters (learning rate, entropy coefficient
etc.) across Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall. We chose to make a special case of Pitfall instead
of using reward scaling in general for our method because reward clipping is more amenable to
sharing hyperparameters across many different games [3]. An alternative to these domain-specific
adjustments would be to implement automated reward scaling methods such as Pop-Art [70].
Another change to the canonical Backward Algorithm relates to fixing an issue with early termination
and negative rewards. To quickly eliminate rollouts that are slow in collecting the rewards from the
demonstration, the original Backward Algorithm implements early termination, where it terminates
all rollouts that do not get the same (or a higher) cumulative reward as the demonstration within
a certain number of steps (50 in our case). The early termination is implemented in the form of a
sliding window, where the cumulative reward of the current rollout is compared with the cumulative
reward of the demonstration from 50 time steps ago, and if the cumulative reward of the current
rollout is lower, the rollout is terminated. For example, if the demonstration collected a reward of 100
points at time step 20 (counting from the starting point of the rollout, and assuming no other rewards
were collected), then a rollout will have to collect at least 100 points before time step 70, otherwise
the rollout will be terminated at time step 70.
The sliding window method for early termination works fine when only positive rewards exist, as the
only reason the rollout can have a lower score than the demonstration is because it failed to collect a
particular positive reward within the given time frame. However, if negative rewards exist, a rollout
can also be terminated by collecting a negative reward, even if the demonstration collected the same
negative reward. For example, if the demonstration collected a negative reward of -1 at time step
20 (once again, counting from the starting point of the rollout and assuming no other rewards were
collected), the rollout needs to avoid this negative reward at all costs; otherwise it will be terminated
at time step 50, even though it followed the same behavior as the demonstration. The reason for such
early termination is that, at time step 50, the rollout will be compared with the performance of the
demonstration at time step 0, and at that time step, the demonstration has not collected the negative
reward yet.
To avoid this termination criteria, we give the agent an allowed score deficit of 250 points, meaning a
rollout will only be terminated if its score is more than 250 points lower than that of the demonstration
from 50 time steps earlier. This convention means that, as long as the demonstration did not collect
more 250 points of negative reward within the given 50 time steps, the rollout will not be terminated
if it follows the demonstration. The value of 250 points was found empirically on Pitfall, though
future work could look for a more general method of implementing early termination in domains
with negative reward.
A.8

Performance

All Phase 1 runs were done on single virtual machines with 22 CPU cores. Each virtual machine had
50GB of RAM.
Table 3 shows various performance metrics as a function of the level reached during Phase 1 the
“domain knowledge” experiment on Montezuma’s Revenge. The full experiment ran for 600M game
frames, which took a mean of 74.9 (CI: 72.6 – 77.2) hours.
It is worth noting that time scales superlinearly with game frames primarily due to: (1) Cell selection,
which happens at a fixed interval, but takes an amount of time proportional to the number of cells,
which is constantly growing. We note that our cell selection is a form of Roulette-Wheel Selection
(RWS) [101], which we implement naively with an O(n) algorithm. O(log n) and even O(1)
implementations for RWS are possible [102], so that cell selection could be sped up substantially
in the future. (2) Trajectory concatenation, which is implemented in a naive way where each cell
contains an array that represents the entire trajectory needed to reach it, such that if cell B was reached
from cell A, cell B’s trajectory will contain a copy of the trajectory that leads to cell A, plus the
actions that can lead from cell A to cell B. The copying of trajectories ever increasing in length is
negligible at the start of the algorithm, but takes up more and more time as the algorithm goes on. An
31

Level

Solved %

Game Frames
(excl. replay)

Time (hours)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
94%
70%
38%
12%

58M (53M – 62M)
104M (97M – 111M)
173M (164M – 182M)
242M (230M – 253M)
305M (292M – 318M)
373M (358M – 388M)
432M (416M – 448M)
487M (471M – 503M)
533M (518M – 548M)
561M (550M – 572M)
582M (570M – 595M)

0.9 (0.9 – 1.0)
2.5 (2.3 – 2.7)
6.8 (6.2 – 7.3)
12.7 (11.7 – 13.6)
19.9 (18.6 – 21.3)
29.4 (27.8 – 31.2)
39.1 (37.0 – 41.2)
49.8 (47.4 – 52.1)
61.4 (58.5 – 64.3)
70.4 (67.7 – 73.2)
77.6 (72.9 – 82.0)

Hypothetical
Game Frames
(incl. replay)
1.5B (1.3B – 1.6B)
4.3B (3.9B – 4.6B)
12B (12B – 13B)
24B (23B – 26B)
38B (36B – 41B)
57B (53B – 60B)
75B (71B – 79B)
96B (92B – 101B)
117B (113B – 121B)
139B (134B – 144B)
151B (147B – 155B)

Table 3: Mean computational complexity to reach different levels for Montezuma’s Revenge
with domain knowledge. The “Game frame (incl. replay)” metric shows the number of game frames
that would have been played if we replayed trajectories instead of resetting the emulator state. It
is a hypothetical metric, since we did not replay the trajectories, but instead reset the environment.
The “Solved %” column shows the proportion of runs that solved a given level. All other metrics are
computed only for the subset of runs that did solve the level.

alternative representation with better memory and computational efficiency would be to represent
trajectories as linked lists of actions, and in reverse order, so that each action links to its predecessor.
With this representation, if cell B is reached from cell A, only the actions leading from cell A to cell
B need to be stored in cell B, with the first of these actions linking to the last action needed to reach
cell A, which means that adding cell B would take constant time, instead of a time proportional to
the length of the longest trajectories in memory. Further, the amount of memory would also grow
linearly, and the number of actions stored in memory would be bounded by the number of actions
ever taken during exploration.
For Montezuma’s Revenge without domain knowledge, performance metrics are shown in Table 4.
The full experiment ran for 1.2B game frames, which took 26.9 (CI: 25.6 – 28.2) hours. It is notable
that this is faster than the experiment with domain knowledge in spite of processing twice as many
frames. This is likely due to the same reasons that domain knowledge runs get slower over time: runs
without domain knowledge find fewer cells and shorter trajectories, and are thus less affected by the
slowdown.
Level

Solved %

Game Frames
(excl. replay)

Time (hours)

1
2

57%
1%

640M (567M – 711M)
592M (592M – 592M)

10.8 (9.5 – 12.0)
11.4 (11.4 – 11.4)

Hypothetical
Game Frames
(incl. replay)
33B (28B – 37B)
32B (32B – 32B)

Table 4: Mean computational complexity to reach different levels for Montezuma’s Revenge
without domain knowledge. The “Game frame (incl. replay)” metric shows the number of game
frames that would have been played if we replayed trajectories instead of resetting the emulator state.
It is a hypothetical metric, since we did not replay the trajectories, but instead reset the environment.
The “Solved %” column shows the proportion of runs that solved a given level. All other metrics are
computed only for the subset of runs that did solve the level.

For Pitfall with domain knowledge, the threshold at which to compare game frames is not as clear as
it is for Montezuma’s Revenge. In order to include data from all of our 40 runs, we report the required
game frames for reaching the lowest score achieved out of those runs, which is 47, 534. Reaching
this threshold required a mean of 794.0M (CI: 715.9M – 869.8M) game frames, which takes 25.0
(CI: 21.4 – 28.3) hours, and it would have required a mean of 100.8B (CI: 84.1B – 116.0B) game
32

frames if trajectories had to be replayed from the start of the game. The full experiment lasted for
4.0B game frames, which took a mean of 186.3 (CI: 184.9 – 187.8) hours. The full experiment would
have required 1,060.4B (CI: 1,048.5B – 1,071.7B) game frames if trajectories had to be replayed
from the start of the game.
Because Pitfall without domain knowledge did not obtain any rewards, it is hard to define good
thresholds at which to compare game frames. In addition, regardless of the threshold we choose, the
resulting data would not be representative of the resources Go-Explore would need to make progress
on Pitfall (instead, it would represent the resource usage when Go-Explore fails to make progress).
For those two reasons, we do not include Pitfall without domain knowledge in the remainder of this
section.
We did not monitor the precise memory usage of Phase 1, beyond the fact that all our runs succeeded
on machines with 50GB of RAM. Another indicator is the size of the serialized checkpoints produced
at the end of each run, as these checkpoints contain all the necessary data to run Go-Explore,
including the complete set of all cells, the metadata used in cell selection (see Appendix A.5), and
the trajectories needed to reach the cells. Uncompressed, these files serialized using pickle have
a mean size of 341.2MB (CI: 292.3MB – 389.3MB) in the case of Montezuma’s Revenge without
domain knowledge, and 2.8GB (CI: 2.7GB – 2.9GB) with domain knowledge. For Pitfall with domain
knowledge, the mean uncompressed checkpoint size was 1.30GB (CI: 1.29GB – 1.31GB).
For robustification, each run used 16 workers, each equipped with a single GPU, for a total of 16
GPUs per run. For Montezuma’s Revenge without domain knowledge, runs lasted up to 5B game
frames though the selected checkpoints were produced after a mean of 4.35B (CI: 4.27B – 4.45B)
game frames (which took a mean of 2.4 (CI: 2.4 – 2.5) days). For Montezuma’s Revenge with domain
knowledge, runs lasted up to 10B game frames but selected checkpoints were produced after a mean
of 4.59B (CI: 3.09B – 5.91B) game frames, which took a mean of 2.6 (CI: 1.8 – 3.3) days. For
Pitfall with domain knowledge, runs lasted for about 12B game frames and selected checkpoints were
produced after a mean of 8.20B (CI: 6.73B – 9.74B) game frames, which took a mean of 4.5 (CI: 3.7
– 5.3) days.
A.9

Scores

Table 5 compares the results of Go-Explore with many other algorithms. The scores for the other
algorithms are with stochastic testing in the form of random no-ops, sticky actions, human restarts,
or a combination thereof. In the case of Go-Explore, both random no-ops and sticky actions were
present in testing. As mentioned in Section 2.1.3, Go-Explore was trained partially without sticky
actions or random no-ops, whereas many of the algorithms in this table also handled stochasticity
throughout training.

33

Algorithm
SARSA [3, 103]
Linear [3, 103]
DQN [3, 68]
Gorila [74]
MP-EB [104]
DDQN [67, 68]
Duel. DQN [68]
Prior. DQN [69]
A3C [105]
Pop-Art [70]
DQN-CTS [4]
A3C-CTS [4]
BASS-hash [33]
DQN-PixelCNN [36]
ES [71]
Reactor [34]
Feature-EB [35]
C51 [72]
UBE [38]
Rainbow [73]
IMPALA [42]
Ape-X [41]
DeepCS [37]
RND [16]
PPO+CoEX [39]
Go-Explore
Go-Explore
(domain knowledge)
Go-Explore (best)
DQfD [26]
TDC+CMC [45]
Ape-X DQfD [27]
LfSD (best) [28]
Average Human [27]
Human Expert [27]
Human World Record [78]

Montezuma’s Revenge
259
10.7
0
84
0
42
22
13
67
0
3,705
1,127
238
2,514
0
2,643.5
2,745
0
3,000
154
2,643.5
2,500
3,500
11,347
11,540
43,763

Pitfall
-286.1
-30
0
-15
-78
-3
0
-259
0
-3.5
0
0
0
-1.2
-1
-186
-3
-

666,474

59,494

18,003,200
4,638
41,098
29,384
74,500
4,753
34,900
1,219,200

107,363
57
76,813
3,997
6,464
47,821
114,000

Table 5: Comparison to baselines for Montezuma’s Revenge and Pitfall. The second section
gives the performance of imitation learning algorithms, while the third gives human performance.
Results are given in order of first public release (including preprints). Many historical papers did
not consider Pitfall, in which case the score is displayed as “-”. Two references are given in cases
where the score from a given method does not appear in its original paper, but appears in another
paper (usually in a comparison section).

34

A.10

Fine-grained cell representation for Pitfall without domain knowledge

As mentioned in Section 3.2, we attempted an experiment on Pitfall without domain knowledge using
the same parameters as with Montezuma’s Revenge. This approach did not succeed, as Go-Explore
quickly stopped finding new rooms and failed to find any rewards (Fig. 9). One potential reason for
this failure is that the downscaled cell representation optimized for Montezuma’s Revenge conflates
too many states into the same cell in Pitfall. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that Go-Explore
stops discovering new cells, both when measured post-hoc as domain knowledge cells (Fig. 9) and in
the downscaled representation of cells in which it is actually searching (Fig. 11).

W/O Domain Knowledge Cells Found

5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
0.0

0.5

1.0
1.5
Game Frames

2.0
1e9

Figure 11: Number of without-domain-knowledge cells found during Phase 1 on Pitfall without
domain knowledge. Most cells are found within the first 500M game frames, after which very few
new cells are found. This observation suggests that Pitfall without domain knowledge fails because
there are too many different states that are mapped to the same Go-Explore cell.
To resolve this issue, we looked at different cell representations that would be able to distinguish a
larger number of states. A particularly promising cell representation assigns 16, rather than 8, different
pixel values to each pixel in the 11 × 8 downscaled representation. While this cell representation
does result in a larger number of rooms visited and the number of downscaled cells found did not
stagnate, the runs terminated prematurely due to exhausting the 50GB of memory available on the
virtual machine (Fig. 12). Better hardware, distributed computation, or algorithmic improvements are
all potential methods to resolve this issue, but we leave their implementation to future work.

Found Rooms

30
25
20
15
10
5

0

2

4
Game Frames

6

(a) Number of rooms found

1e8

600,000
0

500,000
400,000

Best Score

W/O Domain Knowledge Cells found

35

300,000
200,000
100,000
0

0
0
0
0

0

2
4
Game Frames

6

(b) Number of cells found

1e8

0

2

4
Game Frames

6

1e8

(c) Maximum score in archive

Figure 12: Go-Explore Phase 1 on Pitfall without domain knowledge with a more fine-grained
(16 different pixel values instead of 8) cell representation. While the number of rooms (a) and
the number of cells (b) found continues to increase, even after 600M game frames, the runs do not
continue beyond this point because they run out of memory. Despite visiting more rooms, Go-Explore
still does not find any rewards, although it may have were it able to continue for longer (c). The noise
at the end of sub-figure (a) is caused by different runs crashing at different times. The plot shows
the mean and 95% bootstrapped confidence interval over 20 runs initially, but the number of runs
declines over time. The first run crashes around 500M game frames.

35

A.11

Failure robustifying long trajectories in Pitfall

While Go-Explore on Pitfall with domain knowledge is able to find trajectories that score over 70,000
points (Fig. 9), the Backward Algorithm was unable to robustify these trajectories (Fig. 13).
70,000

Max Starting Point

60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000

Demo 1
Demo 2
Demo 3
Demo 4
Demo 5

20,000
10,000
0

0.00

0.25

0.50

0.75 1.00 1.25
Game Frames

1.50

1.75

2.00
1e10

Figure 13: Maximum starting point over training when robustifying the full-length trajectories
produced by Go-Explore in Phase 1 on Pitfall with domain knowledge. Unlike in Fig. 5b, the
lines in this figure represent separate robustification attempts, each of which was applied to a single
demonstration taken from different runs of Go-Explore Phase 1. None of the 5 robustification attempts
reaches a starting point near 0, meaning that robustification failed on these demonstrations. We did
not try to robustify from multiple demonstrations for want of time, although doing so may have
worked better.
A.12

Nearly identical states in Pitfall

Pitfall contains many rooms located in different parts of the game that contain the exact same objects
and hazards. These identical rooms can result in nearly identical-looking states that require different
actions to be navigated optimally (Fig. 14), and they indicate that Pitfall is a Partially Observable
Markov Decision Process (POMDP). These nearly identical looking states can pose a problem, both
when robustifying trajectories that visit some of these states, and when designing a domain-agnostic
cell representation that should, ideally, treat these states as being in different cells.
The general method for handling POMDPs is to condition the current action on all previously
observed states, for example by training a recurrent, rather than feed-forward, neural network. For
the robustification phase our method already implements a recurrent layer in the neural network,
but, possibly due to the way the network is trained with the Backward Algorithm (i.e. whenever
the agent is started from a particular state, it is not presented with all states that would have come
before), this recurrent layer does not appear to completely solve the issue (see also section 3.2).
A similar approach could be applied for obtaining cell representations (e.g. a cell representation
could be conditioned on all observations of the trajectory to a particular state, rather than just the
observation at a particular state), but care would have to be taken to ensure that actually identical (or
nearly identical) states are recognized as such.

36

direction in
demonstration

direction in
demonstration

Figure 14: Two nearly identical looking states that require different actions to be navigated
optimally. The two screenshots are taken from the same Go-Explore demonstration, but at different
times. The rooms are conceptually identical: they both contain a blue pool, a swinging vine, three
rolling logs, and a scorpion. However, because the two rooms are located in different areas of the
game, the correct actions for navigating the two rooms can be different. In this case, the Go-Explore
demonstration navigates the left room right to left, whereas it navigates the right room from left to
right. When training a policy in this situation, there will be many similar looking states that require
opposite actions. While the moving aspects of the room (i.e. the vine, the logs, and the scorpion)
are likely to be in different locations in the two rooms of the demonstration, the fact that they will
also be in different locations when entering the rooms at different times makes them poor features
for differentiation. Probably the most informative features that can be used to determine in which
direction to move are the score counter and the clock (the white numbers in the top left of each
image), though, in practice, these small, frequently-changing features seem insufficient to provide the
necessary guidance.

37

