Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Adrià Puigdomènech Badia * 1 Bilal Piot * 1 Steven Kapturowski * 1 Pablo Sprechmann * 1 Alex Vitvitskyi 1
Daniel Guo 1 Charles Blundell 1

arXiv:2003.13350v1 [cs.LG] 30 Mar 2020

Abstract
Atari games have been a long-standing benchmark in the reinforcement learning (RL) community for the past decade. This benchmark was
proposed to test general competency of RL algorithms. Previous work has achieved good average performance by doing outstandingly well
on many games of the set, but very poorly in
several of the most challenging games. We propose Agent57, the first deep RL agent that outperforms the standard human benchmark on all
57 Atari games. To achieve this result, we train a
neural network which parameterizes a family of
policies ranging from very exploratory to purely
exploitative. We propose an adaptive mechanism
to choose which policy to prioritize throughout
the training process. Additionally, we utilize a
novel parameterization of the architecture that allows for more consistent and stable learning.

1. Introduction
The Arcade Learning Environment (ALE; Bellemare et al.,
2013) was proposed as a platform for empirically assessing agents designed for general competency across a wide
range of games. ALE offers an interface to a diverse set
of Atari 2600 game environments designed to be engaging
and challenging for human players. As Bellemare et al.
(2013) put it, the Atari 2600 games are well suited for evaluating general competency in AI agents for three main reasons: (i) varied enough to claim generality, (ii) each interesting enough to be representative of settings that might be
faced in practice, and (iii) each created by an independent
party to be free of experimenter’s bias.
Agents are expected to perform well in as many games as
possible making minimal assumptions about the domain
at hand and without the use of game-specific information.
Deep Q-Networks (DQN ; Mnih et al., 2015) was the first
algorithm to achieve human-level control in a large num*
Equal contribution 1 DeepMind. Correspondence to: Adrià
Puigdomènech Badia <adriap@google.com>.

Figure 1. Number of games where algorithms are better than the
human benchmark throughout training for Agent57 and state-ofthe-art baselines on the 57 Atari games.

ber of the Atari 2600 games, measured by human normalized scores (HNS). Subsequently, using HNS to assess
performance on Atari games has become one of the most
widely used benchmarks in deep reinforcement learning
(RL), despite the human baseline scores potentially underestimating human performance relative to what is possible (Toromanoff et al., 2019). Nonetheless, human benchmark performance remains an oracle for “reasonable performance” across the 57 Atari games. Despite all efforts,
no single RL algorithm has been able to achieve over 100%
HNS on all 57 Atari games with one set of hyperparameters. Indeed, state of the art algorithms in model-based
RL, MuZero (Schrittwieser et al., 2019), and in model-free
RL, R2D2 (Kapturowski et al., 2018) surpass 100% HNS
on 51 and 52 games, respectively. While these algorithms
achieve well above average human-level performance on
a large fraction of the games (e.g. achieving more than
1000% HNS), in the games they fail to do so, they often
fail to learn completely. These games showcase particularly important issues that a general RL algorithm should be
able to tackle. Firstly, long-term credit assignment: which
decisions are most deserving of credit for the positive (or
negative) outcomes that follow? This problem is particularly hard when rewards are delayed and credit needs to
be assigned over long sequences of actions, such as in the
games of Skiing or Solaris. The game of Skiing is a canonical example due to its peculiar reward structure. The goal

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

of the game is to run downhill through all gates as fast as
possible. A penalty of five seconds is given for each missed
gate. The reward, given only at the end, is proportional to
the time elapsed. Therefore long-term credit assignment
is needed to understand why an action taken early in the
game (e.g. missing a gate) has a negative impact in the
obtained reward. Secondly, exploration: efficient exploration can be critical to effective learning in RL. Games
like Private Eye, Montezuma’s Revenge, Pitfall! or Venture
are widely considered hard exploration games (Bellemare
et al., 2016; Ostrovski et al., 2017) as hundreds of actions
may be required before a first positive reward is seen. In order to succeed, the agents need to keep exploring the environment despite the apparent impossibility of finding positive rewards. These problems are particularly challenging
in large high dimensional state spaces where function approximation is required.
Exploration algorithms in deep RL generally fall into three
categories: randomized value functions (Osband et al.,
2016; Fortunato et al., 2017; Salimans et al., 2017; Plappert et al., 2017; Osband et al., 2018), unsupervised policy
learning (Gregor et al., 2016; Achiam et al., 2018; Eysenbach et al., 2018) and intrinsic motivation (Schmidhuber,
1991; Oudeyer et al., 2007; Barto, 2013; Bellemare et al.,
2016; Ostrovski et al., 2017; Fu et al., 2017; Tang et al.,
2017; Burda et al., 2018; Choi et al., 2018; Savinov et al.,
2018; Puigdomènech Badia et al., 2020). Other work combines handcrafted features, domain-specific knowledge or
privileged pre-training to side-step the exploration problem, sometimes only evaluating on a few Atari games (Aytar et al., 2018; Ecoffet et al., 2019). Despite the encouraging results, no algorithm has been able to significantly
improve performance on challenging games without deteriorating performance on the remaining games without relying on human demonstrations (Pohlen et al., 2018). Notably, amongst all this work, intrinsic motivation, and in
particular, Never Give Up (NGU; Puigdomènech Badia
et al., 2020) has shown significant recent promise in improving performance on hard exploration games. NGU
achieves this by augmenting the reward signal with an internally generated intrinsic reward that is sensitive to novelty at two levels: short-term novelty within an episode and
long-term novelty across episodes. It then learns a family
of policies for exploring and exploiting (sharing the same
parameters), with the end goal of obtain the highest score
under the exploitative policy. However, NGU is not the
most general agent: much like R2D2 and MuZero are able
to perform strongly on all but few games, so too NGU suffers in that it performs strongly on a smaller, different set
of games to agents such as MuZero and R2D2 (despite being based on R2D2). For example, in the game Surround
R2D2 achieves the optimal score while NGU performs similar to a random policy. One shortcoming of NGU is that it

collects the same amount of experience following each of
its policies, regardless of their contribution to the learning
progress. Some games require a significantly different degree of exploration to others. Intuitively, one would want
to allocate the shared resources (both network capacity and
data collection) such that end performance is maximized.
We propose allowing NGU to adapt its exploration strategy
over the course of an agent’s lifetime, enabling specialization to the particular game it is learning. This is the first
significant improvement we make to NGU to allow it to be
a more general agent.
Recent work on long-term credit assignment can be categorized into roughly two types: ensuring that gradients
correctly assign credit (Ke et al., 2017; Weber et al., 2019;
Ferret et al., 2019; Fortunato et al., 2019) and using values or targets to ensure correct credit is assigned (ArjonaMedina et al., 2019; Hung et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2019;
Harutyunyan et al., 2019). NGU is also unable to cope
with long-term credit assignment problems such as Skiing
or Solaris where it fails to reach 100% HNS. Advances in
credit assignment in RL often involve a mixture of both approaches, as values and rewards form the loss whilst the
flow of gradients through a model directs learning.
In this work, we propose tackling the long-term credit assignment problem by improving the overall training stability, dynamically adjusting the discount factor, and increasing the backprop through time window. These are
relatively simple changes compared to the approaches proposed in previous work, but we find them to be effective.
Much recent work has explored this problem of how to dynamically adjust hyperparameters of a deep RL agent, e.g.,
approaches based upon evolution (Jaderberg et al., 2017),
gradients (Xu et al., 2018) or multi-armed bandits (Schaul
et al., 2019). Inspired by Schaul et al. (2019), we propose
using a simple non-stationary multi-armed bandit (Garivier
& Moulines, 2008) to directly control the exploration rate
and discount factor to maximize the episode return, and
then provide this information to the value network of the
agent as an input. Unlike Schaul et al. (2019), 1) it controls
the exploration rate and discount factor (helping with longterm credit assignment), and 2) the bandit controls a family
of state-action value functions that back up the effects of
exploration and longer discounts, rather than linearly tilting a common value function by a fixed functional form.
In summary, our contributions are as follows:
1. A new parameterization of the state-action value function that decomposes the contributions of the intrinsic
and extrinsic rewards. As a result, we significantly increase the training stability over a large range of intrinsic
reward scales.
2. A meta-controller: an adaptive mechanism to select

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

which of the policies (parameterized by exploration rate
and discount factors) to prioritize throughout the training process. This allows the agent to control the exploration/exploitation trade-off by dedicating more resources to one or the other.
3. Finally, we demonstrate for the first time performance
that is above the human baseline across all Atari 57
games. As part of these experiments, we also find that
simply re-tuning the backprop through time window to
be twice the previously published window for R2D2
led to superior long-term credit assignment (e.g., in Solaris) while still maintaining or improving overall performance on the remaining games.
These improvements to NGU collectively transform it into
the most general Atari 57 agent, enabling it to outperform
the human baseline uniformly over all Atari 57 games.
Thus, we call this agent: Agent57.

2. Background: Never Give Up (NGU)
Our work builds on top of the NGU agent, which combines
two ideas: first, the curiosity-driven exploration, and second, distributed deep RL agents, in particular R2D2.
NGU computes an intrinsic reward in order to encourage
exploration. This reward is defined by combining perepisode and life-long novelty. The per-episode novelty,
rtepisodic , rapidly vanishes over the course of an episode, and
it is computed by comparing observations to the contents
of an episodic memory. The life-long novelty, αt , slowly
vanishes throughout training, and it is computed by using a
parametric model (in NGU and in this work Random Network Distillation (Burda et al., 2018) is used to this end).
With this, the intrinsic reward rti is defined as follows:

Markov Decision Processes (MDP) see App. A). Since the
intrinsic reward is typically much more dense than the exN −1
trinsic reward, {(βj , γj )}j=0
are chosen so as to allow for
long term horizons (high values of γj ) for exploitative policies (small values of βj ) and small term horizons (low values of γj ) for exploratory policies (high values of βj ).
To learn the state-action value function Q∗rj , NGU trains
a recurrent neural network Q(x, a, j; θ), where j is a onehot vector indexing one of N implied MDPs (in particular
(βj , γj )), x is the current observation, a is an action, and θ
are the parameters of the network (including the recurrent
state). In practice, NGU can be unstable and fail to learn
an appropriate approximation of Q∗rj for all the state-action
value functions in the family, even in simple environments.
This is especially the case when the scale and sparseness
of rte and rti are both different, or when one reward is more
noisy than the other. We conjecture that learning a common
state-action value function for a mix of rewards is difficult
when the rewards are very different in nature. Therefore, in
Sec. 3.1, we propose an architectural modification to tackle
this issue.
Our agent is a deep distributed RL agent, in the lineage
of R2D2 and NGU. As such, it decouples the data collection and the learning processes by having many actors
feed data to a central prioritized replay buffer. A learner
can then sample training data from this buffer, as shown
in Fig. 2 (for implementation details and hyperparameters
refer to App. E). More precisely, the replay buffer con-

rti = rtepisodic · min {max {αt , 1} , L} ,
where L = 5 is a chosen maximum reward scaling. This
leverages the long-term novelty provided by αt , while
rtepisodic continues to encourage the agent to explore within
an episode. For a detailed description of the computation of
rtepisodic and αt , see (Puigdomènech Badia et al., 2020). At
time t, NGU adds N different scales of the same intrinsic
reward βj rti (βj ∈ R+ , j ∈ 0, . . . N − 1) to the extrinsic reward provided by the environment, rte , to form N potential
total rewards rj,t = rte + βj rti . Consequently, NGU aims to
learn the N different associated optimal state-action value
functions Q∗rj associated with each reward function rj,t .
The exploration rates βj are parameters that control the
degree of exploration. Higher values will encourage exploratory policies and smaller values will encourage exploitative policies. Additionally, for purposes of learning
long-term credit assignment, each Q∗rj has its own associated discount factor γj (for background and notations on

Figure 2. A schematic depiction of a distributed deep RL agent.

tains sequences of transitions that are removed regularly
in a FIFO-manner. These sequences come from actor processes that interact with independent copies of the environment, and they are prioritized based on temporal differences errors (Kapturowski et al., 2018). The priorities
are initialized by the actors and updated by the learner with
the updated state-action value function Q(x, a, j; θ). According to those priorities, the learner samples sequences
of transitions from the replay buffer to construct an RL

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

loss. Then, it updates the parameters of the neural network Q(x, a, j; θ) by minimizing the RL loss to approximate the optimal state-action value function. Finally, each
actor shares the same network architecture as the learner
but with different weights. We refer as θl to the parameters
of the l−th actor. The learner weights θ are sent to the actor frequently, which allows it to update its own weights θl .
Each actor uses different values l , which are employed to
follow an l -greedy policy based on the current estimate of
the state-action value function Q(x, a, j; θl ). In particular,
at the beginning of each episode and in each actor, NGU
uniformly selects a pair (βj , γj ). We hypothesize that this
process is sub-optimal and propose to improve it in Sec. 3.2
by introducing a meta-controller for each actor that adapts
the data collection process.

3. Improvements to NGU

for intrinsic and extrinsic state-action value functions.
Moreover, when a transformed Bellman operator (Pohlen
et al., 2018) with function h is used (see App. A), we can
split the state-action value function in the following way:
Q(x, a, j; θ) =

h h−1 (Q(x, a, j; θe )) + βj h−1 (Q(x, a, j; θi )) .
In App. B, we also show that the optimization of separated transformed state-action value functions is equivalent
to the optimization of the original single transformed stateaction value function. In practice, choosing a simple or
transformed split does not seem to play an important role
in terms of performance (empirical evidence and an intuition behind this result can be found in App. H.3). In our
experiments, we choose an architecture with a simple split
which corresponds to h being the identity, but still use the
transformed Retrace loss functions.

3.1. State-Action Value Function Parameterization
The proposed architectural improvement consists in splitting the state-action value function in the following way:
e

i

Q(x, a, j; θ) = Q(x, a, j; θ ) + βj Q(x, a, j; θ ),
where Q(x, a, j; θe ) and Q(x, a, j; θi ) are the extrinsic and
intrinsic components of Q(x, a, j; θ) respectively. The sets
of weights θe and θi separately parameterize two neural
networks with identical architecture and θ = θi ∪ θe . Both
Q(x, a, j; θe ) and Q(x, a, j; θi ) are optimized separately in
the learner with rewards re and ri respectively, but with
the same target policy π(x) = arg maxa∈A Q(x, a, j; θ).
More precisely, to train the weights θe and θi , we use
the same sequence of transitions sampled from the replay, but with two different transformed Retrace loss functions (Munos et al., 2016). For Q(x, a, j; θe ) we compute
an extrinsic transformed Retrace loss on the sequence transitions with rewards re and target policy π, whereas for
Q(x, a, j; θi ) we compute an intrinsic transformed Retrace
loss on the same sequence of transitions but with rewards
ri and target policy π. A reminder of how to compute a
transformed Retrace loss on a sequence of transitions with
rewards r and target policy π is provided in App. C.
In addition, in App. B, we show that this optimization of
separate state-action values is equivalent to the optimization of the original single state-action value function with
reward re + βj ri (under a simple gradient descent optimizer). Even though the theoretical objective being optimized is the same, the parameterization is different: we use
two different neural networks to approximate each one of
these state-action values (a schematic and detailed figures
of the architectures used can be found in App. F). By doing
this, we allow each network to adapt to the scale and variance associated with their corresponding reward, and we
also allow for the associated optimizer state to be separated

3.2. Adaptive Exploration over a Family of Policies
The core idea of NGU is to jointly train a family of policies with different degrees of exploratory behaviour using a
single network architecture. In this way, training these exploratory policies plays the role of a set of auxiliary tasks
that can help train the shared architecture even in the absence of extrinsic rewards. A major limitation of this approach is that all policies are trained equally, regardless
of their contribution to the learning progress. We propose
to incorporate a meta-controller that can adaptively select
which policies to use both at training and evaluation time.
This carries two important consequences. Firstly, by selecting which policies to prioritize during training, we can
allocate more of the capacity of the network to better represent the state-action value function of the policies that
are most relevant for the task at hand. Note that this is
likely to change throughout the training process, naturally
building a curriculum to facilitate training. As mentioned
in Sec. 2, policies are represented by pairs of exploration
rate and discount factor, (βj , γj ), which determine the discounted cumulative rewards to maximize. It is natural to
expect policies with higher βj and lower γj to make more
progress early in training, while the opposite would be expected as training progresses. Secondly, this mechanism
also provides a natural way of choosing the best policy in
the family to use at evaluation time. Considering a wide
range of values of γj with βj ≈ 0, provides a way of automatically adjusting the discount factor on a per-task basis.
This significantly increases the generality of the approach.
We propose to implement the meta-controller using a nonstationary multi-arm bandit algorithm running independently on each actor. The reason for this choice, as opposed
to a global meta-controller, is that each actor follows a different l -greedy policy which may alter the choice of the

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Figure 3. Capped human normalized score where we observe at
which point the agent surpasses the human benchmark on the last
6 games.

optimal arm. Each arm j from the N -arm bandit is linked
to a policy in the family and corresponds to a pair (βj , γj ).
At the beginning of each episode, say, the k-th episode,
the meta-controller chooses an arm Jk setting which policy will be executed. We use capital letters for the arm Jk
because it is a random variable. Then the l-th actor acts
l -greedily with respect to the corresponding state-action
value function, Q(x, a, Jk ; θl ), for the whole episode. The
undiscounted extrinsic episode returns, noted Rke (Jk ), are
used as a reward signal to train the multi-arm bandit algorithm of the meta-controller.
The reward signal Rke (Jk ) is non-stationary, as the agent
changes throughout training. Thus, a classical bandit algorithm such as Upper Confidence Bound (UCB; Garivier &
Moulines, 2008) will not be able to adapt to the changes
of the reward through time. Therefore, we employ a simplified sliding-window UCB with UCB -greedy exploration.
With probability 1 − UCB , this algorithm runs a slight modification of classic UCB on a sliding window of size τ and
selects a random arm with probability UCB (details of the
algorithms are provided in App. D).
Note that the benefit of adjusting the discount factor
through training and at evaluation could be applied even in
the absence of intrinsic rewards. To show this, we propose
augmenting a variant of R2D2 with a meta-controller. In
order to isolate the contribution of this change, we evaluate
a variant of R2D2 which uses the same RL loss as Agent57.
Namely, a transformed Retrace loss as opposed to a transformed n-step loss as in the original paper. We refer to this
variant as R2D2 (Retrace) throughout the paper. In all other
aspects, R2D2 (Retrace) is exactly the same algorithm as
R2D2. We incorporate the joint training of several policies
−1
parameterized by {γj }N
j=0 to R2D2 (Retrace). We refer to
this algorithm as R2D2 (bandit).

4. Experiments
We begin this section by describing our experimental setup.
Following NGU, Agent57 uses a family of coefficients
−1
{(βj , γj )}N
j=0 of size N = 32. The choice of discounts

−1
{γj }N
j=0 differs from that of NGU to allow for higher values, ranging from 0.99 to 0.9999 (see App. G.1 for details). The meta-controller uses a window size of τ = 160
episodes and  = 0.5 for the actors and a window size of
τ = 3600 episodes and  = 0.01. All the other hyperparameters are identical to those of NGU, including the
standard preprocessing of Atari frames. For a complete
description of the hyperparameters and preprocessing we
use, please see App. G.3. For all agents we run (that is,
all agents except MuZero where we report numbers presented in Schrittwieser et al. (2019)), we employ a separate
evaluator process to continuously record scores. We record
the undiscounted episode returns averaged over 3 seeds and
using a windowed mean over 50 episodes. For our best algorithm, Agent57, we report the results averaged over 6
seeds on all games to strengthen the significance of the results. On that average, we report the maximum over training as their final score, as done in Fortunato et al. (2017);
Puigdomènech Badia et al. (2020). Further details on our
evaluation setup are described in App. E.

In addition to using human normalized scores HNS =
Agentscore −Randomscore
Humanscore −Randomscore , we report the capped human normalized scores, CHNS = max{min{HNS, 1}, 0}. This measure is a better descriptor for evaluating general performance, as it puts an emphasis in the games that are below
the average human performance benchmark. Furthermore,
and avoiding any issues that aggregated metrics may have,
we also provide all the scores that all the ablations obtain
in all games we evaluate in App. H.1.
We structure the rest of this section in the following way:
firstly, we show an overview of the results that Agent57
achieves. Then we proceed to perform ablations on each
one of the improvements we propose for our model.
4.1. Summary of the Results
Tab. 1 shows a summary of the results we obtain on all 57
Atari games when compared to baselines. MuZero obtains
the highest uncapped mean and median human normalized
scores, but also the lowest capped scores. This is due to the
fact that MuZero performs remarkably well in some games,
such as Beam Rider, where it shows an uncapped score of
27469%, but at the same time catastrophically fails to learn
in games such as Venture, achieving a score that is on par
with a random policy. We see that the meta-controller improvement successfully transfers to R2D2: the proposed
variant R2D2 (bandit) shows a mean, median, and CHNS
that are much higher than R2D2 with the same Retrace
loss. Finally, Agent57 achieves a median and mean that is
greater than NGU and R2D2, but also its CHNS is 100%.
This shows the generality of Agent57: not only it obtains
a strong mean and median, but also it is able to obtain
strong performance on the tail of games in which MuZero

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark
Table 1. Number of games above human, mean capped, mean and median human normalized scores for the 57 Atari games.
Statistics
Capped mean
Number of games > human
Mean
Median
40th Percentile
30th Percentile
20th Percentile
10th Percentile
5th Percentile

Agent57
100.00
57
4766.25
1933.49
1091.07
614.65
324.78
184.35
116.67

R2D2 (bandit)
96.93
54
5461.66
2357.92
1298.80
648.17
303.61
116.82
93.25

and R2D2 catastrophically fail. This is more clearly observed when looking at different percentiles: up to the
20th percentile, Agent57 shows much greater performance,
only slightly surpassed by R2D2 (bandit) when we examine higher percentiles. In Fig. 3 we report the performance
of Agent57 in isolation on the 57 games. We show the last
6 games (in terms of number of frames collected by the
agents) in which the algorithm surpasses the human performance benchmark. As shown, the benchmark over games
is beaten in a long-tailed fashion, where Agent57 uses the
first 5 billion frames to surpass the human benchmark on
51 games. After that, we find hard exploration games, such
as Montezuma’s Revenge, Pitfall!, and Private Eye. Lastly,
Agent57 surpasses the human benchmark on Skiing after
78 billion frames. To be able to achieve such performance
on Skiing, Agent57 uses a high discount (as we show in
Sec. 4.4). This naturally leads to high variance in the returns, which leads to needing more data in order to learn
to play the game. One thing to note is that, in the game
of Skiing, the human baseline is very competitive, with a
score of −4336.9, where −17098.1 is random and −3272
is the optimal score one can achieve.
In general, as performance in Atari keeps improving, it
seems natural to concentrate on the tail of the distribution,
i.e., pay attention to those games for which progress in the
literature has been historically much slower than average.
We now present results for a subset of 10 games that we call
the challenging set. It consists of the six hard exploration
games as defined in (Bellemare et al., 2016), plus games
that require long-term credit assignment. More concretely,
the games we use are: Beam Rider, Freeway, Montezuma’s
Revenge, Pitfall!, Pong, Private Eye, Skiing, Solaris, Surround, and Venture.
In Fig. 4 we can see the performance progression obtained
from incorporating each one of the improvements we make
on top of NGU. Such performance is reported on the selection of 10 games mentioned above. We observe that each
one of the improvements results in an increment in final
performance. Further, we see that each one of the improvements that is part of Agent57 is necessary in order to obtain
the consistent final performance of 100% CHNS.

NGU
95.07
51
3421.80
1359.78
610.44
267.10
226.43
107.78
64.10

R2D2 (Retrace)
94.20
52
3518.36
1457.63
817.77
420.67
267.25
116.03
48.32

R2D2
94.33
52
4622.09
1935.86
1176.05
529.23
215.31
115.33
50.27

MuZero
89.92
51
5661.84
2381.51
1172.90
503.05
171.39
75.74
0.03

Figure 4. Performance progression on the 10-game challenging
set obtained from incorporating each one of the improvements.

4.2. State-Action Value Function Parameterization
We begin by evaluating the influence of the state-action
value function parametrization on a minimalistic gridworld
environment, called “random coin”. It consists of an empty
room of size 15 × 15 where a coin and an agent are
randomly placed at the start of each episode. The agent
can take four possible actions (up, down, left right) and
episodes are at most 200 steps long. If the agent steps over
the coin, it receives a reward of 1 and the episode terminates. In Fig. 5 we see the results of NGU with and without the new parameterization of its state-action value functions. We report performance after 150 million frames. We
compare the extrinsic returns for the policies that are the
exploitative (βj = 0) and the most exploratory (with the
largest βj in the family). Even for small values of the
exploration rates (maxj βj ), this setting induces very different exploratory and exploitative policies. Maximizing
the discounted extrinsic returns is achieved by taking the
shortest path towards the coin (obtaining an extrinsic return of one), whereas maximizing the augmented returns
is achieved by avoiding the coin and visiting all remaining
states (obtaining an extrinsic return of zero). In principle,
NGU should be able to learn these policies jointly. However, we observe that the exploitative policy in NGU struggles to solve the task as intrinsic motivation reward scale
increases. As we increase the scale of the intrinsic reward,

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Figure 6. Solaris learning curves with small and long backprop
through time window sizes for both R2D2 and Agent57.
Figure 5. Extrinsic returns for the exploitative (β0 = 0) and most
exploratory (β31 = β) on “random coin” for different values of
the intrinsic reward weight, β. (Top) NGU(Bottom) NGU with
Separate networks for intrinsic and extrinsic values.

its value becomes much greater than that of the extrinsic reward. As a consequence, the conditional state-action value
network of NGU is required to represent very different values depending on the βj we condition on. This implies that
the network is increasingly required to have more flexible
representations. Using separate networks dramatically increases its robustness to the intrinsic reward weight that is
used. Note that this effect would not occur if the episode
did not terminate after collecting the coin. In such case,
exploratory and exploitative policies would be allowed to
be very similar: both could start by collecting the coin as
quickly as possible. In Fig. 4 we can see that this improvement also translates to the challenging set. NGU achieves a
much lower average CHNS than its separate network counterpart. We also observe this phenomenon when we incorporate the meta-controller. Agent57 suffers a drop of performance that is greater than 20% when the separate network improvement is removed.
We can also see that it is a general improvement: it does
not show worse performance on any of the 10 games of
the challenging set. More concretely, the largest improvement is seen in the case of Surround, where NGU obtains
a score on par with a random policy, whereas with the new
parametrization it reaches a score that is nearly optimal.
This is because Surround is a case that is similar to the “random coin” environment mentioned above: as the player
makes progress in the game, they have the choice to surround the opponent snake, receive a reward, and start from
the initial state, or keep wandering around without capturing the opponent, and thus visiting new states in the world.

4.3. Backprop Through Time Window Size
In this section we analyze the impact of having a backprop
through time window size. More concretely, we analyze its
impact on the base algorithm R2D2 to see its effect without NGU or any of the improvements we propose. Further,
we also analyze its effect on Agent57, to see if any of the
improvements on NGU overlap with this change. In both
cases, we compare using backprop through time window
sizes of 80 (default in R2D2) versus 160.
In aggregated terms over the challenging set, its effect
seems to be the same for both R2D2 and Agent57: using a longer backprop through time window appears to be
initially slower, but results in better overall stability and
slightly higher final score. A detailed comparison over
those 10 games is shown in App. H.2. This effect can be
seen clearly in the game of Solaris, as observed in Fig. 6.
This is also the game showing the largest improvement in
terms of final score. This is again general improvement, as
it enhances performance on all the challenging set games.
For further details we report the scores in App. H.1.
4.4. Adaptive Exploration
In this section, we analyze the effect of using the metacontroller described in Sec. 3.1 in both the actors and the
evaluator. To isolate the contribution of this improvement,
we evaluate two settings: R2D2 and NGU with separate
networks, with and without meta-controller. Results are
shown in Fig. 7. Again, we observe that this is a general
improvement in both comparisons. Firstly, we observe that
there is a great value in this improvement on its own, enhancing the final performance of R2D2 by close to 20%
CHNS. Secondly, we observe that the benefit on NGU with
separate networks is more modest than for R2D2. This indicates that there is a slight overlap in the contributions of
the separate network parameterization and the use of the
meta-controller. The bandit algorithm can adaptively decrease the value of β when the difference in scale between

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Figure 7. Performance comparison for adaptive exploration on the
10-game challenging set.

intrinsic and extrinsic rewards is large. Using the metacontroller allows to include very high discount values in
the set {γj }N
j=0 . Specifically, running R2D2 with a high
discount factor, γ = 0.9999 surpasses the human baseline
in the game of Skiing. However, using that hyperparameter
across the full set of games, renders the algorithm very unstable and damages its end performance. All the scores in
the challenging set for a fixed high discount (γ = 0.9999)
variant of R2D2 are reported in App. H.1. When using a
meta-controller, the algorithm does not need to make this
compromise: it can adapt it in a per-task manner.
Finally, the results and discussion above show why it is
beneficial to use different values of β and γ on a per-task
basis. At the same time, in Sec. 3 we hypothesize it would
also be useful to vary those coefficients throughout training. In Fig. 8 we can see the choice of (βj , γj ) producing highest returns on the meta-controller of the evaluator
across training for several games. Some games clearly have
a preferred mode: on Skiing the high discount combination
is quickly picked up when the agent starts to learn, and on
Hero a high β and low γ is generally preferred at all times.
On the other hand, some games have different preferred
modes throughout training: on Gravitar, Crazy Climber,
Beam Rider, and Jamesbond, Agent57 initially chooses to
focus on exploratory policies with low discount, and, as
training progresses, the agent shifts into producing experience from higher discount and more exploitative policies.

5. Conclusions
We present the first deep reinforcement learning agent with
performance above the human benchmark on all 57 Atari
games. The agent is able to balance the learning of different skills that are required to be performant on such diverse
set of games: exploration and exploitation and long-term
credit assignment. To do that, we propose simple improvements to an existing agent, Never Give Up, which has good
performance on hard-exploration games, but in itself does

Figure 8. Best arm chosen by the evaluator of Agent57 over training for different games.

not have strong overall performance across all 57 games.
These improvements are i) using a different parameterization of the state-action value function, ii) using a metacontroller to dynamically adapt the novelty preference and
discount, and iii) the use of longer backprop-through time
window to learn from using the Retrace algorithm.
This method leverages a great amount of computation to its
advantage: similarly to NGU, it is able to scale well with
increasing amounts of computation. This has also been the
case with the many recent achievements in deep RL (Silver et al., 2016; Andrychowicz et al., 2018; Vinyals et al.,
2019). While this enables our method to achieve strong
performance, an interesting research direction is to pursue
ways in which to improve the data efficiency of this agent.
Additionally, this agent shows an average capped human
normalized score of 100%. However, in our view this by
no means marks the end of Atari research, not only in terms
of efficiency as above, but also in terms of general performance. We offer two views on this: firstly, analyzing the
performance among percentiles gives us new insights on
how general algorithms are. While Agent57 achieves great
results on the first percentiles of the 57 games and holds
better mean and median performance than NGU or R2D2,
as MuZero shows, it could still obtain much better average
performance. Secondly, as pointed out by Toromanoff et al.
(2019), all current algorithms are far from achieving optimal performance in some games. To that end, key improvements to use might be enhancements in the representations
that Agent57 and NGU use for exploration, planning (as
suggested by the results achieved by MuZero) as well as
better mechanisms for credit assignment (as highlighted by
the results seen in Skiing).

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Acknowledgments
We thank Daan Wierstra, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Vlad
Mnih, Vali Irimia, Georg Ostrovski, Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar, Rémi Munos, Bernardo Avila Pires, Florent
Altché, Steph Hughes-Fitt, Rory Fitzpatrick, Andrea Banino, Meire Fortunato, Melissa Tan, Benigno Uria, Borja
Ibarz, Andre Barreto, Diana Borsa, Simon Osindero, Tom
Schaul, and many other colleagues at DeepMind for helpful
discussions and comments on the manuscript.

References
Achiam, J., Edwards, H., Amodei, D., and Abbeel, P.
Variational option discovery algorithms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1807.10299, 2018.

Choi, J., Guo, Y., Moczulski, M., Oh, J., Wu, N., Norouzi,
M., and Lee, H. Contingency-aware exploration in reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.01483,
2018.
Ecoffet, A., Huizinga, J., Lehman, J., Stanley, K. O.,
and Clune, J. Go-explore: a new approach for hardexploration problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.10995,
2019.
Eysenbach, B., Gupta, A., Ibarz, J., and Levine, S. Diversity is all you need: Learning skills without a reward
function. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.06070, 2018.
Ferret, J., Marinier, R., Geist, M., and Pietquin, O. Credit
assignment as a proxy for transfer in reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.08027, 2019.

Andrychowicz, M., Baker, B., Chociej, M., Jozefowicz, R.,
McGrew, B., Pachocki, J., Petron, A., Plappert, M., Powell, G., Ray, A., et al. Learning dexterous in-hand manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.00177, 2018.

Fortunato, M., Azar, M. G., Piot, B., Menick, J., Osband, I.,
Graves, A., Mnih, V., Munos, R., Hassabis, D., Pietquin,
O., et al. Noisy networks for exploration. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1706.10295, 2017.

Arjona-Medina, J. A., Gillhofer, M., Widrich, M., Unterthiner, T., Brandstetter, J., and Hochreiter, S. Rudder:
Return decomposition for delayed rewards. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 13544–
13555, 2019.

Fortunato, M., Tan, M., Faulkner, R., Hansen, S., Badia,
A. P., Buttimore, G., Deck, C., Leibo, J. Z., and Blundell,
C. Generalization of reinforcement learners with working and episodic memory. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 12448–12457, 2019.

Aytar, Y., Pfaff, T., Budden, D., Paine, T., Wang, Z., and
de Freitas, N. Playing hard exploration games by watching youtube. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp. 2930–2941, 2018.

Fu, J., Co-Reyes, J., and Levine, S. Ex2: Exploration with
exemplar models for deep reinforcement learning. In
Advances in neural information processing systems, pp.
2577–2587, 2017.

Barreto, A., Dabney, W., Munos, R., Hunt, J. J., Schaul, T.,
van Hasselt, H. P., and Silver, D. Successor features for
transfer in reinforcement learning. In Advances in neural
information processing systems, pp. 4055–4065, 2017.
Barto, A. G. Intrinsic motivation and reinforcement learning. In Intrinsically motivated learning in natural and
artificial systems, pp. 17–47. Springer, 2013.
Bellemare, M., Srinivasan, S., Ostrovski, G., Schaul, T.,
Saxton, D., and Munos, R. Unifying count-based exploration and intrinsic motivation. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, pp. 1471–1479, 2016.
Bellemare, M. G., Naddaf, Y., Veness, J., and Bowling, M.
The arcade learning environment: An evaluation platform for general agents. Journal of Artificial Intelligence
Research, 47:253–279, 06 2013.
Burda, Y., Edwards, H., Storkey, A., and Klimov, O. Exploration by random network distillation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.12894, 2018.

Garivier, A. and Moulines, E. On upper-confidence bound
policies for non-stationary bandit problems, 2008.
Gregor, K., Rezende, D. J., and Wierstra, D. Variational intrinsic control. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.07507, 2016.
Harutyunyan, A., Dabney, W., Mesnard, T., Azar, M. G.,
Piot, B., Heess, N., van Hasselt, H. P., Wayne, G., Singh,
S., Precup, D., et al. Hindsight credit assignment. In
Advances in neural information processing systems, pp.
12467–12476, 2019.
Horgan, D., Quan, J., Budden, D., Barth-Maron, G.,
Hessel, M., Van Hasselt, H., and Silver, D. Distributed prioritized experience replay. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.00933, 2018.
Hung, C.-C., Lillicrap, T., Abramson, J., Wu, Y., Mirza,
M., Carnevale, F., Ahuja, A., and Wayne, G. Optimizing agent behavior over long time scales by transporting
value. Nature communications, 10(1):1–12, 2019.
Jaderberg, M., Dalibard, V., Osindero, S., Czarnecki,
W. M., Donahue, J., Razavi, A., Vinyals, O., Green,

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

T., Dunning, I., Simonyan, K., et al. Population
based training of neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1711.09846, 2017.

Večerík, M., et al. Observe and look further: Achieving consistent performance on atari. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1805.11593, 2018.

Kapturowski, S., Ostrovski, G., Quan, J., Munos, R., and
Dabney, W. Recurrent experience replay in distributed
reinforcement learning. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2018.

Puigdomènech Badia, A., Sprechmann, P., Vitvitskyi, A.,
Guo, D., Piot, B., Kapturowski, S., Tieleman, O., Arjovsky, M., Pritzel, A., Bolt, A., and Blundell, C. Never
give up: Learning directed exploration strategies. In
International Conference on Learning Representations,
2020.

Ke, N. R., Goyal, A., Bilaniuk, O., Binas, J., Charlin,
L., Pal, C., and Bengio, Y. Sparse attentive backtracking: Long-range credit assignment in recurrent networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.02326, 2017.
Liu, Y., Luo, Y., Zhong, Y., Chen, X., Liu, Q., and
Peng, J. Sequence modeling of temporal credit assignment for episodic reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1905.13420, 2019.
Mnih, V., Kavukcuoglu, K., Silver, D., Rusu, A. A., Veness, J., Bellemare, M. G., Graves, A., Riedmiller, M.,
Fidjeland, A. K., Ostrovski, G., et al. Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning. Nature, 518
(7540):529, 2015.
Munos, R., Stepleton, T., Harutyunyan, A., and Bellemare,
M. Safe and efficient off-policy reinforcement learning.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
pp. 1046–1054, 2016.
Osband, I., Blundell, C., Pritzel, A., and Van Roy, B. Deep
exploration via bootstrapped dqn. In Advances In Neural
Information Processing Systems, pp. 4026–4034, 2016.
Osband, I., Aslanides, J., and Cassirer, A. Randomized
prior functions for deep reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp.
8617–8629, 2018.
Ostrovski, G., Bellemare, M. G., van den Oord, A., and
Munos, R. Count-based exploration with neural density
models. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning-Volume 70, pp. 2721–2730.
JMLR. org, 2017.
Oudeyer, P.-Y., Kaplan, F., and Hafner, V. V. Intrinsic motivation systems for autonomous mental development.
IEEE transactions on evolutionary computation, 11(2):
265–286, 2007.
Plappert, M., Houthooft, R., Dhariwal, P., Sidor, S., Chen,
R. Y., Chen, X., Asfour, T., Abbeel, P., and Andrychowicz, M. Parameter space noise for exploration. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1706.01905, 2017.
Pohlen, T., Piot, B., Hester, T., Azar, M. G., Horgan, D.,
Budden, D., Barth-Maron, G., Van Hasselt, H., Quan, J.,

Puterman, M. L. Markov decision processes. Handbooks
in operations research and management science, 2:331–
434, 1990.
Salimans, T., Ho, J., Chen, X., Sidor, S., and Sutskever,
I. Evolution strategies as a scalable alternative to reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.03864,
2017.
Savinov, N., Raichuk, A., Marinier, R., Vincent, D., Pollefeys, M., Lillicrap, T., and Gelly, S. Episodic curiosity
through reachability. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.02274,
2018.
Schaul, T., Borsa, D., Ding, D., Szepesvari, D., Ostrovski,
G., Dabney, W., and Osindero, S. Adapting behaviour
for learning progress, 2019.
Schmidhuber, J. A possibility for implementing curiosity
and boredom in model-building neural controllers. In
Proc. of the international conference on simulation of
adaptive behavior: From animals to animats, pp. 222–
227, 1991.
Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I., Hubert, T., Simonyan, K.,
Sifre, L., Schmitt, S., Guez, A., Lockhart, E., Hassabis,
D., Graepel, T., et al. Mastering atari, go, chess and
shogi by planning with a learned model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1911.08265, 2019.
Silver, D., Huang, A., Maddison, C. J., Guez, A., Sifre, L.,
Van Den Driessche, G., Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I.,
Panneershelvam, V., Lanctot, M., et al. Mastering the
game of go with deep neural networks and tree search.
nature, 529(7587):484–489, 2016.
Tang, H., Houthooft, R., Foote, D., Stooke, A., Chen,
O. X., Duan, Y., Schulman, J., DeTurck, F., and Abbeel,
P. # exploration: A study of count-based exploration for
deep reinforcement learning. In Advances in neural information processing systems, pp. 2753–2762, 2017.
Toromanoff, M., Wirbel, E., and Moutarde, F. Is deep reinforcement learning really superhuman on atari? arXiv
preprint arXiv:1908.04683, 2019.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Vinyals, O., Babuschkin, I., Czarnecki, W. M., Mathieu,
M., Dudzik, A., Chung, J., Choi, D. H., Powell, R.,
Ewalds, T., Georgiev, P., et al. Grandmaster level in starcraft ii using multi-agent reinforcement learning. Nature,
575(7782):350–354, 2019.
Weber, T., Heess, N., Buesing, L., and Silver, D. Credit
assignment techniques in stochastic computation graphs.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.01761, 2019.
Xu, Z., van Hasselt, H. P., and Silver, D. Meta-gradient reinforcement learning. In Advances in neural information
processing systems, pp. 2396–2407, 2018.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

A. Background on MDP
A Markov decision process (MDP; Puterman, 1990) is a tuple (X , A, P, r, γ), with X being the state space, A being
the action space, P the state-transition distribution maps each state-action tuple (x, a) to a probability distribution over
states (with P (y|x, a) denoting the probability of transitioning to state y from x by choosing action a), the reward function
r ∈ RX ×A and γ ∈]0, 1[ the discount factor. A stochastic policy π maps each state to a distribution over actions (π(a|x)
denotes the probability of choosing action a in state x). A deterministic policy πD ∈ X A can also be represented by a
distribution over actions π such that π(πD (x)|x) = 1. We will use one or the other concept with the same notation π in
the remaining when the context is clear.
Let T (x, a, π) be the distribution over trajectories τ = (Xt , At , Rt , Xt+1 )t∈N generated by a policy π, with (X0 , A0 ) =
(x, a), ∀t ≥ 1, At ∼ π(.|Xt ), ∀t ≥ 0, Rt = r(Xt , At ) and ∀t ≥ 0, Xt+1 ∼ P (.|Xt , At ). Then, the state-action value
function Qπr (x, a) for the policy π and the state-action tuple (x, a) is defined as:


X
Qπr (x, a) = Eτ ∼T (x,a,π) 
Rt  .
t≥0

The optimal state-action value function Q∗ is defined as:
Q∗r (x, a) = max Qπr (x, a).
π

where the max is taken over all stochastic policies.
Let define the one-step evaluation Bellman operator Trπ , for all functions Q ∈ RX ×A and for all state-action tuples
(x, a) ∈ X × A, as:
X X
Trπ Q(x, a) = r(x, a) + γ
π(b|x)P (x0 |x, a)Q(x0 , b).
b∈A x0 ∈X

The one-step evaluation Bellman operator can also be written with vectorial notations:
Trπ Q = r + γP π Q,
where P π is a transition matrix representing the effect of acting according to π in a MDP with dynamics P . The evaluation
Bellman operator is a contraction and its fixed point is Qπr .
Finally let define the greedy operator G, for all functions Q ∈ RX ×A and for all state x ∈ X , as:
G(Q)(x) = arg max Q(x, a).
a∈A

Then, one can show (Puterman, 1990), via a fixed point argument, that the following discrete scheme:

πk = G (Qk ) ,
∀k ≥ 0,
Qk+1 = Trπk Qk ,
where Q0 can be initialized arbitrarily, converges to Q∗r . This discrete scheme is called the one-step value iteration scheme.
Throughout the article, we also use transformed Bellman operators (see Sec. C.2). The one-step transformed evaluation
π
Bellman operator Tr,h
, for all functions Q ∈ RX ×A and for all state-action tuples (x, a) ∈ X × A, can be defined as:
!
X X
π
0
−1
0
Tr,h Q(x, a) = h r(x, a) + γ
π(b|x)P (x |x, a)h (Q(x , b)) ,
b∈A x0 ∈X

where h is a monotonically increasing and invertible squashing function that scales the state-action value function to make
it easier to approximate for a neural network. In particular, we use the function h:
p
∀z ∈ R, h(z) = sign(z)( |z| + 1 − 1) + z,
!
!
p
1 + 4(|z| + 1 + ) − 1
−1
∀z ∈ R, h (z) = sign(z)
−1 ,
2

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

with  a small number. The one-step transformed evaluation Bellman operator can also be written with vectorial notations:

π
Tr,h
Q = h r + γP π h−1 (Q) .
Under some conditions on h (Pohlen et al., 2018) and via a contraction argument, one can show that the transformed
one-step value iteration scheme:

πk = G (Qk ) ,
∀k ≥ 0,
πk
Qk+1 = Tr,h
Qk ,
where Q0 can be initialized arbitrarily, converges. We note this limit Q∗r,h .

B. Extrinsic-Intrinsic Decomposition
For an intrinsically-motivated agent, the reward function r is a linear combination of the intrinsic reward ri and the extrinsic
reward re :
r = re + βri .
One can compute the optimal state-action value function Q∗r via the value iteration scheme:

πk = G (Qk ) ,
∀k ≥ 0,
Qk+1 = Trπk Qk ,
where Q0 can be initialized arbitrarily.
Now, we want to show how we can also converge to Q∗r using separate intrinsic and extrinsic state-action value functions.
Indeed, let us consider the following discrete scheme:


e
i
 π̃k = G Qk + βQk ,
Qi = Trπ̃ik Qik ,
∀k ≥ 0,
 k+1
Qek+1 = Trπ̃ek Qek ,
where the functions (Qe0 , Qi0 ) can be initialized arbitrarily.
Our goal is simply to show that the linear combination of extrinsic and intrinsic state-action value function Q̃k :
∀k ≥ 0, Q̃k = Qek + βQik .
verifies a one-step value iteration scheme with respect to the reward r = re + βri and therefore converges to Q∗r . To show
that let us rewrite Q̃k+1 :
Q̃k+1 = Qek+1 + βQik+1 ,
= Trπ̃ek Qek + βTrπ̃ik Qik ,
= re + βri + γP π̃k (Qek + βQik ),
= Trπ̃ek+βri (Qek + βQik ),
= Trπ̃k Q̃k .
Therefore we have that Q̃k satisfies a value iteration scheme with respect to the reward r = re + βri :
 
(
π̃k = G Q̃k ,
∀k ≥ 0,
Q̃k+1 = Trπ̃k Q̃k ,
and by the contraction property:
lim Q̃k = Q∗r .

k−→∞

This result means that we can compute separately Qek and Qik and then mix them to obtain the same behavior than if we
had computed Qk directly with the mixed reward re + βri . This implies that we can separately compute the extrinsic

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

and intrinsic component. Each architecture will need to learn their state-action value for different mixtures β and then
act according to the greedy policy of the mixture of the state-action value functions. This result could also be thought as
related to Barreto et al. (2017) which may suggest potential future research directions.
The same type of result holds for the transformed state-action value functions. Indeed let us consider the optimal transformed state-action value function Q∗r,h that can be computed via the following discrete scheme:

∀k ≥ 0,

πk = G (Qk ) ,
πk
Qk+1 = Tr,h
Qk ,

where Q0 can be initialized arbitrarily.
Now, we show how we can compute Q∗r,h differently using separate intrinsic and extrinsic state-action value functions.
Indeed, let us consider the following discrete scheme:


−1
e
−1
i
 π̃k = G h h (Qk ) + βh (Qk ) ,
Qi = Trπ̃ik,h Qik ,
∀k ≥ 0,
 ek+1
Qk+1 = Trπ̃ek,h Qek ,
where the functions (Qe0 , Qi0 ) can be initialized arbitrarily.
We want to show that Q̃k defines as:
∀k ≥ 0,


Q̃k = h h−1 (Qek ) + βh−1 (Qik ) ,

verifies the one-step transformed value iteration scheme with respect to the reward r = re + βri and therefore converges
to Q∗r,h . To show that let us rewrite Q̃k+1 :

Q̃k+1 = h h−1 (Qek+1 ) + βh−1 (Qik+1 ) ,


= h h−1 (Trπ̃ek,h Qek ) + βh−1 (Trπ̃ik,h Qik ) ,

= h re + γP π̃k h−1 (Qek ) + βri + γP π̃k βh−1 (Qik ) ,

= h re + βri + γP π̃k (h−1 (Qek ) + βh−1 (Qik )) ,


= h r + γP π̃k h−1 (Q̃k )
π̃k
= Tr,h
Q̃k .

Thus we have that Q̃k satisfies the one-step transformed value iteration scheme with respect to the reward r = re + βri :
 
(
π̃k = G Q̃k ,
∀k ≥ 0,
π̃k
Q̃k+1 = Tr,h
Qk ,
and by contraction:
lim Q̃k = Q∗r,h .

k−→∞

One can remark that when the transformation h is the identity, we recover the linear mix between intrinsic and extrinsic
state-action value functions.

C. Retrace and Transformed Retrace
Retrace (Munos et al., 2016) is an off-policy RL algorithm for evaluation or control. In the evaluation setting the goal
is to estimate the state-action value function Qπ of a target policy π from trajectories drawn from a behaviour policy µ.
In the control setting the goal is to build a sequence of target policies πk and state-action value functions Qk in order to
approximate Q∗ .

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

The evaluation Retrace operator Trµ,π , that depends on µ and π, is defined as follows, for all functions Q ∈ RX ×A and for
all state-action tuples (x, a) ∈ X × A:

! 
t
X
Y
Trµ,π Q(x, a) = Eτ ∼T (x,a,µ) Q(x, a) +
γt
cs δt  ,
s=1

t≥0

where the temporal difference δt is defined as:
δt = rt + γ

X

π(a|Xt+1 )Q(Xt+1 , a) − Q(Xt , At ),

a∈A

and the trace coefficients cs as:



π(As |Xs )
cs = λ min 1,
µ(As |Xs )


,

where λ is a fixed parameter ∈ [0, 1]. The operator Trµ,π is a multi-step evaluation operator that corrects the behaviour of
µ to evaluate the policy π. It has been shown in Theorem 1 of Munos et al. (2016) that Qπr is the fixed point of Trµ,π . In
addition, Theorem 2 of Munos et al. (2016) explains in which conditions the Retrace value iteration scheme:

πk = G (Qk ) ,
∀k ≥ 0,
Qk+1 = Trµk ,πk Qk ,
converges to the optimal state-action value function Q∗ , where Q0 is initialized arbitrarily and {µk }k∈N is an arbitrary
sequence of policies that may depend on Qk .
As in the case of the one-step Bellman operator, we can also define a transformed counterpart to the Retrace operator.
µ,π
More specifically, we can define the transformed Retrace operator Tr,h
, for all functions Q ∈ RX ×A and for all stateaction tuples (x, a) ∈ X × A:


! 
t
X
Y
µ,π
γt
cs δth  ,
Tr,h
Q(x, a) = h Eτ ∼T (x,a,µ) h−1 (Q(x, a)) +
t≥0

s=1

where the temporal difference δth is defined as:
X
δth = rt + γ
π(a|Xt+1 )h−1 (Q(Xt+1 , a)) − h−1 (Q(Xt , At )).
a∈A

As in the case of the Retrace operator, we can define the transformed Retrace value iteration scheme:

πk = G (Qk ) ,
∀k ≥ 0,
µk ,πk
Qk+1 = Tr,h
Qk ,
where Q0 is initialized arbitrarily and {µk }k∈N is an arbitrary sequence of policies.
C.1. Extrinsic-Intrinsic Decomposition for Retrace and Transformed Retrace
Following the same methodology than App .B, we can also show that the state-action value function can be decomposed
in extrinsic and intrinsic components for the Retrace and transformed Retrace value iteration schemes when the reward is
of the form r = re + βri .
Indeed if we define the following discrete scheme:
∀k ≥ 0,



e
i
 π̃k = G Qk + βQk ,
Qi = Trµ̃ik ,π̃k Qik ,
 ek+1
Qk+1 = Trµ̃ek ,π̃k Qek ,

where the functions (Qe0 , Qi0 ) can be initialized arbitrarily and {µ˜k }k∈N is an arbitrary sequence of policies. Then, it is
straightforward to show that the linear combination Q̃k :
∀k ≥ 0, Q̃k = Qek + βQik ,

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

verifies the Retrace value iteration scheme:
(
∀k ≥ 0,

 
π̃k = G Q̃k ,
Q̃k+1 = Trµ̃k ,π̃k Q̃k ,

Likewise, if we define the following discrete scheme:


−1
e
−1
i

 π̃k = G h h (Qk ) + βh (Qk ) ,
Qik+1 = Trµ̃ik,h,π̃k Qik ,
∀k ≥ 0,

 Qe = T µ̃ek ,π̃k Qe ,
k+1
k
r ,h
where the functions (Qe0 , Qi0 ) can be initialized arbitrarily and {µ˜k }k∈N is an arbitrary sequence of policies. Then, it is
also straightforward to show that Q̃k defines as:

∀k ≥ 0, Q̃k = h h−1 (Qek ) + βh−1 (Qik ) ,
verifies the transformed Retrace value iteration scheme:
(
∀k ≥ 0,

 
π̃k = G Q̃k ,
µ̃k ,π̃k
Q̃k+1 = Tr,h
Qk ,

C.2. Retrace and Transformed Retrace Losses for Neural Nets.
In this section, we explain how we approximate with finite data and neural networks the Retrace value iteration scheme.
To start, one important thing to remark is that we can rewrite the evaluation step:
Qk+1 = Trµk ,πk Qk ,
with:
Qk+1 = arg min kTrµk ,πk Qk − Qk,
Q∈RX ×A

where k.k can be any norm over the function space RX ×A . This means that the evaluation step can be seen as an optimization problem over a functional space where the optimization consists in finding a function Q that matches the target
Trµk ,πk Qk .
In practice, we face two important problems. The search space RX ×A is too big and we cannot evaluate Trµk ,πk Qk
everywhere because we have a finite set of data. To tackle the former, a possible solution is to use function approximation
such as neural networks. Thus, we parameterize the state action value function Q(x, a; θ) (where θ is the set of parameters
of the neural network) also called online network. Concerning the latter, we are going to build sampled estimates of
Trµk ,πk Qk and use them as targets for our optimization problem. In practice, the targets are built from a previous and fixed
set of parameters θ− of the neural network. Q(x, a; θ− ) is called the target network. The target network is updated to the
value of the online network at a fixed frequency during the learning.
More precisely, let us consider a batch of size B of finite sampled sequences of size H: D = {(xbs , abs , µbs =
b b
µ(abs |xbs ), rsb , xbs+1 )t+H−1
}B−1
s=t
b=0 starting from (xt , at ) and then following the behaviour policy µ. Then, we can define
the finite sampled-Retrace targets as:
T̂rµ,π Q(xbs , abs ; θ− ) = Q(xbs , abs ; θ− ) +

t+H−1
X
j=s

γ

j−s

j
Y

!
ci,b

δj,b

i=s+1


π(abi |xbi )
ci,b = λ min 1,
,
µbi
X
δj,b = rjb + γ
π(a|xbj+1 )Q(xbj+1 , a; θ− ) − Q(xbj , abj ; θ− ),


a∈A

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

where π(a|x) is the target policy.
Once the targets are computed, the goal is to find a parameter θ that fits those targets by minimizing the following loss
function:
B−1
2
X t+H−1
X 
L(D, θ, θ− , π, µ, r) =
Q(xbs , abs ; θ) − T̂rµ,π Q(xbs , abs ; θ− ) .
b=0

s=t

This is done by an optimizer such as gradient descent for instance. Once θ is updated by the optimizer, a new loss with
new targets is computed and minimized until convergence.
Therefore in practice the evaluation step of the Retrace value iteration scheme Qk+1 = Trµk ,πk Qk is approximated by
minimizing the loss L(D, θ, π, µ) with an optimizer. The greedy step πk = G (Qk ) is realized by simply being greedy with
respect to the online network and choosing the target policy as follows: π = G (Q(x, a; θ)).
In the case of a transformed Retrace operator, we have the following targets:

t+H−1
X
µ,π
T̂r,h
Q(xbs , abs ; θ− ) = h h−1 (Q(xbs , abs ; θ− )) +
γ j−t
j=s

j
Y

!
ci,b


h 
δs,b

i=s+1

π(abi |xbi )
,
ci,b = λ min 1,
µbi
X
δj,b = rjb + γ
π(a|xbj+1 )h−1 (Q(xbj+1 , a; θ− )) − h−1 Q(xbj , abj ; θ− ).
a∈A




And the transformed Retrace loss function is:
L(D, θ, θ− π, µ, r, h) =

B−1
X t+H−1
X 

2
µ,π
Q(xbs , abs ; θ) − T̂r,h
Q(xbs , abs ; θ− ) .

b=0

s=t

D. Multi-arm Bandit Formalism
This section describes succinctly the multi-arm bandit (MAB) paradigm, upper confidence bound (UCB) algorithm and
sliding-window UCB algorithm. For a more thorough explanation and analysis we refer the reader to Garivier & Moulines
(2008).
At each time k ∈ N, a MAB algorithm chooses an arm Ak among the possible arms {0, . . . , N − 1} according to a policy
π that is conditioned on the sequence of previous actions and rewards. Doing so, it receives a reward Rk (Ak ) ∈ R. In
the stationary case, the rewards {Rk (a)}k≥0 for a given arm a ∈ {0, . . . , N − 1} are modelled by a sequence of i.i.d
random variables. In the non-stationary case, the rewards {Rk (a)}k≥0 are modelled by a sequence of independent random
variables but whose distributions could change through time.
The goal of a MAB algorithm is to find a policy π that maximizes the expected cumulative reward for a given horizon K:
"K−1
#
X
Eπ
Rk (Ak ) .
k=0

In the stationary case, the UCB algorithm has been well studied and is commonly used. Let us define the number of times
an arm a has been played after k steps:
k−1
X
Nk (a) =
1{Am =a} .
m=0

Let us also define the empirical mean of an arm a after k steps:
k−1

µ̂k (a) =

1 X
Rk (a)1{Am =a} .
Nk (a) m=0

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

The UCB algorithm is then defined as follows:
(
∀0 ≤ k ≤ N − 1, Ak = k
∀N ≤ k ≤ K − 1,

Ak = arg max1≤a≤N µ̂k−1 (a) + β

q

log (k−1)
Nk−1 (a)

In the non-stationary case, the UCB algorithm cannot adapt to the change of reward distribution and one can use a slidingwindow UCB in that case. It is commonly understood that the window length τ ∈ N∗ should be way smaller that the
horizon K. Let us define the number of times an arm a has been played after k steps for a window of length τ :
k−1
X

Nk (a, τ ) =

1{Am =a} ,

m=0∨k−τ

where 0 ∨ k − τ means max(0, k − τ ). Let define the empirical mean of an arm a after k steps for a window of length τ :
µ̂k (a, τ ) =

1
Nk (a, τ )

k−1
X

Rk (a)1{Am =a} .

m=0∨k−τ

Then , the sliding window UCB can be defined as follows:
(
∀0 ≤ k ≤ N − 1, Ak = k
∀N ≤ k ≤ K − 1,

Ak = arg max1≤a≤N µ̂k−1 (a, τ ) + β

q

log (k−1∧τ )
Nk−1 (a,τ )

where k − 1 ∧ τ means min(k − 1, τ ).
In our experiments, we use a simplified sliding window UCB with UCB -greedy exploration:


 ∀0 ≤ k ≤ N − 1, Ak = k
q
∀N ≤ k ≤ K − 1 and Uk ≥ UCB , Ak = arg max0≤a≤N −1 µ̂k−1 (a, τ ) + β Nk−11(a,τ )


∀N ≤ k ≤ K − 1 and Uk < UCB , Ak = Yk
where Uk is a random value drawn uniformly from [0, 1] and Yk a random action drawn uniformly from {0, . . . , N − 1}.

E. Implementation details of the distributed setting
t+H−1
Replay buffer: it stores fixed-length sequences of transitions ξ = (ωs )s=t
along with their priorities pξ . A transition
e
i
e i
is of the form ωs = (rs−1 , rs−1 , as−1 , hs−1 , xs , as , hs , µs , js , rs , rs , xs+1 ) . Such transitions are also called timesteps
and the length of a sequence H is called the trace length. In addition, adjacent sequences in the replay buffer overlap by
a number of timesteps called the replay period and the sequences never cross episode boundaries. Let us describe each
element of a transition:
e
• rs−1
: extrinsic reward at the previous time.
i
: intrinsic reward at the previous time.
• rs−1

• as−1 : action done by the agent at the previous time.
• hs−1 : recurrent state (in our case hidden state of the LSTM) at the previous time.
• xs : observation provided by the environment at the current time.
• as : action done by the agent at the current time.
• hs : recurrent state (in our case hidden state of the LSTM) at the current time.
• µs : the probability of choosing the action as .

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

• js = j: index of the pair (γj , βj ) chosen at a beginning of an episode in each actor by the multi-arm bandit algorithm
(fixed for the whole sequence).
• rse : extrinsic reward at the current time.
• rsi : intrinsic reward at the current time
• xs+1 : observation provided by the environment at the next time.
In our experiment, we choose a trace length of 160 with a replay period of 80 or a trace length of 80 with a replay period of
40. Please refer to (Kapturowski et al., 2018) for a detailed experimental of trade-offs on different treatments of recurrent
states in the replay. Finally, concerning the priorities, we followed the same prioritization scheme proposed by Kapturowski
et al. (2018) using a mixture of max and mean of the TD-errors in the sequence with priority exponent η = 0.9.
Actors: each of the L actors shares the same network architecture as the learner but with different weights θl , with
0 ≤ l ≤ L − 1. The l-th actor updates its weights θl every 400 frames by copying the weights of the learner. At the
beginning of each episode, each actor chooses, via a multi-arm bandit algorithm, an index j that represents a pair (γj , βj )
−1
in the family of pairs ({βj , γj )}N
j=0 . In addition, the recurrent state is initialized to zero. To act, an actor will need to do
a forward pass on the network in order to compute the state-action value for all actions, noted Q(xt , ., j; θl ). To do so the
inputs of the network are :
• xt : the observation at time t.
e
e
• rt−1
: the extrinsic reward at the previous time, initialized with r−1
= 0.
i
i
• rt−1
: the intrinsic reward at the previous time, initialized with r−1
= 0.

• at−1 : the action at the previous time, a−1 is initialized randomly.
• ht−1 : recurrent state at the previous time, is initialized with h−1 = 0.
• jt−1 = j: the index of the pair (βj , γj ) chosen by the multi-arm bandit algorithm (fixed for all the episode).
At time t, the l−th actor acts l -greedy with respect to Q(xt , ., j; θl ):

If: Ut < l , at = Yt ,
Else: at = arg maxa∈A Q(xt , a, j; θl ),
where Ut is a random value drawn uniformly from [0, 1] and Yt a random action drawn uniformly from A. The probability
µt associated to at is therefore:
(
l
,
If: Ut < l , µt = |A|
Else: µt = 1 − l |A|−1
|A| ,
where |A| is the cardinal number of the action space, 18 in the case of Atari games. Then, the actor plays the action at and
computes the intrinsic reward rti and the environment produces the next observation xt+1 and the extrinsic reward rte . This
process goes on until the end of the episode.
The value of the noise l is chosen according to the same formula established by Horgan et al. (2018):
l

l = 1+α L−1
where  = 0.4 and α = 8. In our experiments, we fix the number of actors to L = 256. Finally, the actors send the data
collected to the replay along with the priorities.
Evaluator: the evaluator shares the same network architecture as the learner but with different weights θe . The evaluator
updates its weights θl every 5 episodes frames by copying the weights of the learner. Unlike the actors, the experience
produced by the evaluator is not sent to the replay buffer. The evaluator alternates between the following states every 5
episodes:

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

• Training bandit algorithm: the evaluator chooses, via a multi-arm bandit algorithm, an index j that represents a pair
−1
(γj , βj ) in the family of pairs ({βj , γj )}N
j=0 . Then it proceeds to act in the same way as the actors, described above.
At the end of the episode, the undiscounted returns are used to train the multi-arm bandit algorithm.
• Evaluation: the evaluator chooses the greedy choice of index j, arg max1≤a≤N µ̂k−1 (a), so it acts with (γj , βj ).
Then it proceeds to act in the same way as the actors, described above. At the end of 5 episodes and before switching
to the other mode, the results of those 5 episodes are average and reported.
Learner: The learner contains two identical networks called the online and target networks with different weights θ and
θ− respectively (Mnih et al., 2015). The target network’s weights θ− are updated to θ every 1500 optimization steps. For
our particular architecture, the weights θ = θe ∪ θi can be decomposed in a set of intrinsic weights θe and θi that have the
same architecture. Likewise, we have θ− = θ−,e ∪ θ−,i . The intrinsic and extrinsic weights are going to be updated by
their own transformed Retrace loss. θe and θi are updated by executing the following sequence of instructions:
t+H−1 B−1
• First, the learner samples a batch of size B of fixed-length sequences of transitions D = {ξ b = (ωsb )s=t
}b=0 from
the replay buffer.

• Then,
a forward pass is done on the online network and the target with ine,b
i,b
B−1
puts
{(xbs , rs−1
, rs−1
, j b , abs−1 , hbs−1 )t+H
in
order
to
obtain
the
state-action
values
s=t }b=0
B−1
b i
b −,e
b
b e
b
b
}
.
{(Q(xs , ., j ; θ ), Q(xs , ., j ; θ ), Q(xs , ., j ; θ ), Q(xbs , ., j b ; θ−,i ))t+H
s=t b=0
• Once the state-action values are computed, it is now easy to compute the transformed Retrace losses
L(D, θe , θ−,e , π, µ, re , h) and L(D, θi , θ−,i , π, µ, ri , h) for each set of weights θe and θi , respectively, as shown
in Sec .C. The target policy π is greedy with respect to Q(xbs , ., j b ; θe ) + βjsb Q(xbs , ., j b ; θi ) or with respect to

h h−1 (Q(xbs , ., j b ; θe )) + βjsb h−1 (Q(xbs , ., j b ; θi )) in the case where we want to apply a transform h to the mixture of intrinsic and extrinsic state-action value functions.
• The transformed Retrace losses are optimized with an Adam optimizer.
• Like NGU, the inverse dynamics model and the random network distillation losses necessary to compute the intrinsic
rewards are optimized with an Adam optimizer.
• Finally, the priorities are computed for each sampled sequence of transitions ξ b and updated in the replay buffer.
Computation used: in terms of hardware we train the agent with a single GPU-based learner, performing approximately
5 network updates per second (each update on a mini-batch of 64 sequences of length 160. We use 256 actors, with each
one performing ∼ 260 environment steps per second on Atari.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

F. Network Architectures

Figure 9. Sketch of the Agent57.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

Figure 10. Detailed Agent57.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

G. Hyperparameters
G.1. Values of β and γ
N −1
The intuition between the choice of the set {(βj , γj )}j=0
is the following. Concerning the βj we want to encourage
policies which are very exploitative and very exploratory and that is why we choose a sigmoid as shown in Fig. 11(a).
Concerning the γj we would like to allow for long term horizons (high values of γj ) for exploitative policies (small values
of βj ) and small term horizons (low values of γj ) for exploratory policies (high values of βj ). This is mainly due to the
sparseness of the extrinsic reward and the dense nature of the intrinsic reward. This motivates the choice done in Fig. 11(b).

−1
(a) Values taken by the {βi }N
i=0

−1
(b) Values taken by the {γi }N
i=0

−1
N −1
Figure 11. Values taken by the {βi }N
i=0 and the {γi }i=0 for N = 32 and β = 0.3.


if j = 0
 0
β = 0.3
if j = N − 1 ,
βj =

−2)
β · σ(10 2j−(N
)
otherwise
N −2


γ0




 γ1 + (γ0 − γ1 )σ(10 2i−6
6 )
γ1
γj =





(N −9) log(1−γ1 )+(j−8) log(1−γ2 )

 1 − exp
N −9

if j = 0
if j ∈ {1, . . . , 6}
if j = 7
otherwise

where N = 32, γ0 = 0.9999, γ1 = 0.997 and γ2 = 0.99.
G.2. Atari pre-processing hyperparameters
In this section we detail the hyperparameters we use to pre-process the environment frames received from the Arcade
Learning Environment. On Tab. 2 we detail such hyperparameters. ALE is publicly available at https://github.
com/mgbellemare/Arcade-Learning-Environment.
Hyperparameter
Max episode length
Num. action repeats
Num. stacked frames
Zero discount on life loss
Random noops range
Sticky actions
Frames max pooled
Grayscaled/RGB
Action set

Value
30 min
4
1
f alse
30
f alse
3 and 4
Grayscaled
Full

Table 2. Atari pre-processing hyperparameters.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

G.3. Hyperparameters Used
The hyperparameters that we used in all experiments are exactly like those of NGU. However, for completeness, we detail
them below in Tab. 3. We also include the hyperparameters we use for the windowed UCB bandit.
Value
Hyperparameter
Number of mixtures N
32
Optimizer
AdamOptimizer (for all losses)
Learning rate (R2D2)
0.0001
Learning rate (RND and Action prediction)
0.0005
Adam epsilon
0.0001
Adam beta1
0.9
Adam beta2
0.999
Adam clip norm
40
Discount ri
0.99
Discount re
0.997
Batch size
64
Trace length
160
Replay period
80
Retrace λ
p 0.95
R2D2 reward transformation
sign(x) · ( |x| + 1 − 1) + 0.001 · x
Episodic memory capacity
30000
Embeddings memory mode
Ring buffer
Intrinsic reward scale β
0.3
Kernel 
0.0001
Kernel num. neighbors used
10
Replay capacity
5e6
Replay priority exponent
0.9
Importance sampling exponent
0.0
Minimum sequences to start replay
6250
Actor update period
100
Target Q-network update period
1500
Embeddings target update period
once/episode
Action prediction network L2 weight
0.00001
RND clipping factor L
5
Evaluation 
0.01
Target 
0.01
Bandit window size
90
Bandit UCB β
1
Bandit 
0.5
Table 3: Agent57 hyperparameters.

G.4. Hyperparameters Search Range
The ranges we used to select the hyperparameters of Agent57 are displayed on Tab. 4.

Hyperparameter
Bandit window size τ
Bandit UCB

Value
{160, 224, 320, 640}
{0.3, 0.5, 0.7}

Table 4. Range of hyperparameters sweeps.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

H. Experimental Results
H.1. Atari 10: Table of Scores for the Ablations
Games
beam rider
freeway
montezuma revenge
pitfall
pong
private eye
skiing
solaris
surround
venture

R2D2 (Retrace) long trace

R2D2 (Retrace) high gamma

NGU sep. nets

NGU Bandit

Agent57 small trace

287326.72 ± 5700.31
33.91 ± 0.09
566.67 ± 235.70
0.00 ± 0.00
21.00 ± 0.00
21729.91 ± 9571.60
-10784.13 ± 2539.27
52500.89 ± 2910.14
10.00 ± 0.00
2100.00 ± 0.00

349971.96 ± 5595.38
32.84 ± 0.06
1664.89 ± 1177.26
0.00 ± 0.00
21.00 ± 0.00
22480.31 ± 10362.99
-4596.26 ± 601.04
14814.76 ± 11361.16
10.00 ± 0.00
1774.89 ± 83.79

151082.57 ± 8666.19
32.91 ± 0.58
11539.69 ± 1227.71
15195.27 ± 8005.22
21.00 ± 0.00
63953.38 ± 26278.51
-19817.99 ± 7755.19
44771.13 ± 4920.53
9.77 ± 0.23
3249.01 ± 544.19

249006.62 ± 19662.62
26.43 ± 1.66
7619.70 ± 3444.76
2979.57 ± 2919.08
20.56 ± 0.28
43823.40 ± 4808.23
-4051.99 ± 569.78
43963.59 ± 5765.41
-7.57 ± 0.05
2228.04 ± 305.50

244491.89 ± 25348.14
32.87 ± 0.12
7966.67 ± 2531.58
16402.61 ± 10471.27
21.00 ± 0.00
80581.86 ± 28331.16
-4278.86 ± 270.96
17254.14 ± 5840.70
9.60 ± 0.20
2576.98 ± 394.84

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

H.2. Backprop window length comparison

Figure 12. Performance comparison for short and long backprob window length on the 10-game challenging set.

H.3. Identity versus h-transform mixes comparison

Figure 13. Performance comparison for identity versus h-transform mixes on the 10-game challenging set.

As shown in Fig H.3, choosing an identity or an h-transform mix does not seem to make a difference in terms of performance. The only real important thing is that a combination between extrinsic and intrinsic happens whether it is linear or
not. In addition, one can remark that for extreme values of β (β = 0, β >> 1), the quantities Qek (x, a) + βQik (x, a) and
h−1 (Qek (x, a)) + βh−1 (Qik (x, a)) have the same arg maxa∈A because h−1 is strictly increasing. Therefore, this means
that on the extremes values of β, the transform and normal value iteration schemes converge towards the same policy. For
in between values of β, this is not the case. But we can conjecture that when a transform operator and and identity mix
are used, the value iteration scheme approximates a state-action value function that is optimal with respect to a non-linear
combination of the intrinsic and extrinsic rewards ri , re , respectively.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

H.4. Atari 57 Table of Scores
Games
alien
amidar
assault
asterix
asteroids
atlantis
bank heist
battle zone
beam rider
berzerk
bowling
boxing
breakout
centipede
chopper command
crazy climber
defender
demon attack
double dunk
enduro
fishing derby
freeway
frostbite
gopher
gravitar
hero
ice hockey
jamesbond
kangaroo
krull
kung fu master
montezuma revenge
ms pacman
name this game
phoenix
pitfall
pong
private eye
qbert
riverraid
road runner
robotank
seaquest
skiing
solaris
space invaders
star gunner
surround
tennis
time pilot
tutankham
up n down
venture
video pinball
wizard of wor
yars revenge
zaxxon

Average Human
7127.70
1719.50
742.00
8503.30
47388.70
29028.10
753.10
37187.50
16926.50
2630.40
160.70
12.10
30.50
12017.00
7387.80
35829.40
18688.90
1971.00
-16.40
860.50
-38.70
29.60
4334.70
2412.50
3351.40
30826.40
0.90
302.80
3035.00
2665.50
22736.30
4753.30
6951.60
8049.00
7242.60
6463.70
14.60
69571.30
13455.00
17118.00
7845.00
11.90
42054.70
-4336.90
12326.70
1668.70
10250.00
6.50
-8.30
5229.20
167.60
11693.20
1187.50
17667.90
4756.50
54576.90
9173.30

Random
227.80
5.80
222.40
210.00
719.10
12850.00
14.20
2360.00
363.90
123.70
23.10
0.10
1.70
2090.90
811.00
10780.50
2874.50
152.10
-18.60
0.00
-91.70
0.00
65.20
257.60
173.00
1027.00
-11.20
29.00
52.00
1598.00
258.50
0.00
307.30
2292.30
761.40
-229.40
-20.70
24.90
163.90
1338.50
11.50
2.20
68.40
-17098.10
1236.30
148.00
664.00
-10.00
-23.80
3568.00
11.40
533.40
0.00
0.00
563.50
3092.90
32.50

Agent57
297638.17 ± 37054.55
29660.08 ± 880.39
67212.67 ± 6150.59
991384.42 ± 9493.32
150854.61 ± 16116.72
1528841.76 ± 28282.53
23071.50 ± 15834.73
934134.88 ± 38916.03
300509.80 ± 13075.35
61507.83 ± 26539.54
251.18 ± 13.22
100.00 ± 0.00
790.40 ± 60.05
412847.86 ± 26087.14
999900.00 ± 0.00
565909.85 ± 89183.85
677642.78 ± 16858.59
143161.44 ± 220.32
23.93 ± 0.06
2367.71 ± 8.69
86.97 ± 3.25
32.59 ± 0.71
541280.88 ± 17485.76
117777.08 ± 3108.06
19213.96 ± 348.25
114736.26 ± 49116.60
63.64 ± 6.48
135784.96 ± 9132.28
24034.16 ± 12565.88
251997.31 ± 20274.39
206845.82 ± 11112.10
9352.01 ± 2939.78
63994.44 ± 6652.16
54386.77 ± 6148.50
908264.15 ± 28978.92
18756.01 ± 9783.91
20.67 ± 0.47
79716.46 ± 29515.48
580328.14 ± 151251.66
63318.67 ± 5659.55
243025.80 ± 79555.98
127.32 ± 12.50
999997.63 ± 1.42
-4202.60 ± 607.85
44199.93 ± 8055.50
48680.86 ± 5894.01
839573.53 ± 67132.17
9.50 ± 0.19
23.84 ± 0.10
405425.31 ± 17044.45
2354.91 ± 3421.43
623805.73 ± 23493.75
2623.71 ± 442.13
992340.74 ± 12867.87
157306.41 ± 16000.00
998532.37 ± 375.82
249808.90 ± 58261.59

R2D2 (Bandit)
464232.43 ± 7988.66
31331.37 ± 817.79
110100.04 ± 346.06
999354.03 ± 12.94
431072.45 ± 1799.13
1660721.85 ± 14643.83
27117.85 ± 963.12
992600.31 ± 1096.19
390603.06 ± 23304.09
77725.62 ± 4556.93
161.77 ± 99.84
100.00 ± 0.00
863.92 ± 0.08
908137.24 ± 7330.99
999900.00 ± 0.00
729482.83 ± 87975.74
730714.53 ± 715.54
143913.32 ± 92.93
24.00 ± 0.00
2378.66 ± 3.66
90.34 ± 2.66
34.00 ± 0.00
309077.30 ± 274879.03
129736.13 ± 653.03
21068.03 ± 497.25
49339.62 ± 4617.76
86.59 ± 0.59
158142.36 ± 904.45
18284.99 ± 817.25
245315.44 ± 48249.07
267766.63 ± 2895.73
3000.00 ± 0.00
62595.90 ± 1755.82
138030.67 ± 5279.91
990638.12 ± 6278.77
0.00 ± 0.00
21.00 ± 0.00
40700.00 ± 0.00
777071.30 ± 190653.94
93569.66 ± 13308.08
593186.78 ± 88650.69
144.00 ± 0.00
999999.00 ± 0.00
-3851.44 ± 517.52
67306.29 ± 10378.22
67898.71 ± 1744.74
998600.28 ± 218.66
10.00 ± 0.00
24.00 ± 0.00
460596.49 ± 3139.33
483.78 ± 37.90
702700.36 ± 8937.59
2258.93 ± 29.90
999645.92 ± 57.93
183090.81 ± 6070.10
999807.02 ± 54.85
370649.03 ± 19761.32

MuZero
741812.63
28634.39
143972.03
998425.00
6785558.64
1674767.20
1278.98
848623.00
4549993.53
85932.60
260.13
100.00
864.00
1159049.27
991039.70
458315.40
839642.95
143964.26
23.94
2382.44
91.16
33.03
631378.53
130345.58
6682.70
49244.11
67.04
41063.25
16763.60
269358.27
204824.00
0.00
243401.10
157177.85
955137.84
0.00
21.00
15299.98
72276.00
323417.18
613411.80
131.13
999976.52
-29968.36
56.62
74335.30
549271.70
9.99
0.00
476763.90
491.48
715545.61
0.40
981791.88
197126.00
553311.46
725853.90

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark
Games
alien
amidar
assault
asterix
asteroids
atlantis
bank heist
battle zone
beam rider
berzerk
bowling
boxing
breakout
centipede
chopper command
crazy climber
defender
demon attack
double dunk
enduro
fishing derby
freeway
frostbite
gopher
gravitar
hero
ice hockey
jamesbond
kangaroo
krull
kung fu master
montezuma revenge
ms pacman
name this game
phoenix
pitfall
pong
private eye
qbert
riverraid
road runner
robotank
seaquest
skiing
solaris
space invaders
star gunner
surround
tennis
time pilot
tutankham
up n down
venture
video pinball
wizard of wor
yars revenge
zaxxon

Agent57
297638.17 ± 37054.55
29660.08 ± 880.39
67212.67 ± 6150.59
991384.42 ± 9493.32
150854.61 ± 16116.72
1528841.76 ± 28282.53
23071.50 ± 15834.73
934134.88 ± 38916.03
300509.80 ± 13075.35
61507.83 ± 26539.54
251.18 ± 13.22
100.00 ± 0.00
790.40 ± 60.05
412847.86 ± 26087.14
999900.00 ± 0.00
565909.85 ± 89183.85
677642.78 ± 16858.59
143161.44 ± 220.32
23.93 ± 0.06
2367.71 ± 8.69
86.97 ± 3.25
32.59 ± 0.71
541280.88 ± 17485.76
117777.08 ± 3108.06
19213.96 ± 348.25
114736.26 ± 49116.60
63.64 ± 6.48
135784.96 ± 9132.28
24034.16 ± 12565.88
251997.31 ± 20274.39
206845.82 ± 11112.10
9352.01 ± 2939.78
63994.44 ± 6652.16
54386.77 ± 6148.50
908264.15 ± 28978.92
18756.01 ± 9783.91
20.67 ± 0.47
79716.46 ± 29515.48
580328.14 ± 151251.66
63318.67 ± 5659.55
243025.80 ± 79555.98
127.32 ± 12.50
999997.63 ± 1.42
-4202.60 ± 607.85
44199.93 ± 8055.50
48680.86 ± 5894.01
839573.53 ± 67132.17
9.50 ± 0.19
23.84 ± 0.10
405425.31 ± 17044.45
2354.91 ± 3421.43
623805.73 ± 23493.75
2623.71 ± 442.13
992340.74 ± 12867.87
157306.41 ± 16000.00
998532.37 ± 375.82
249808.90 ± 58261.59

NGU
312024.15 ± 91963.92
18369.47 ± 2141.76
42829.17 ± 7452.17
996141.15 ± 3993.26
248951.23 ± 7561.86
1659575.47 ± 4140.68
20012.54 ± 20377.89
813965.40 ± 94503.50
75889.70 ± 18226.52
45601.93 ± 5170.98
215.38 ± 13.27
99.71 ± 0.25
625.86 ± 42.66
596427.16 ± 7149.84
999900.00 ± 0.00
351390.64 ± 62150.96
684414.06 ± 3876.41
143695.73 ± 154.88
-12.63 ± 5.29
2095.40 ± 80.81
34.62 ± 4.91
28.71 ± 2.07
284044.19 ± 227850.49
119110.87 ± 463.03
14771.91 ± 843.17
71592.84 ± 12109.10
-3.15 ± 0.47
28725.27 ± 2902.52
37392.82 ± 6170.95
150896.04 ± 33729.56
215938.95 ± 22050.67
19093.74 ± 12627.66
48695.12 ± 1599.94
25608.90 ± 1943.41
966685.41 ± 6127.24
15334.30 ± 15106.90
19.85 ± 0.31
100314.44 ± 291.22
479024.20 ± 98094.39
40770.82 ± 748.42
151326.54 ± 77209.43
11.62 ± 0.67
999999.00 ± 0.00
-24271.33 ± 6936.26
7254.03 ± 3653.55
48087.13 ± 11219.39
450096.08 ± 158979.59
-9.32 ± 0.67
11.06 ± 6.10
368520.34 ± 70829.26
197.90 ± 7.47
630463.10 ± 31175.20
1747.32 ± 101.40
973898.32 ± 20593.14
121791.35 ± 27909.14
997642.09 ± 455.73
129330.99 ± 56872.31

R2D2 (Retrace)
228483.74 ± 111660.11
28777.05 ± 803.90
46003.71 ± 8996.65
998867.54 ± 191.35
345910.03 ± 13189.10
1659411.83 ± 9934.57
16726.07 ± 10992.11
845666.67 ± 51527.68
123281.81 ± 4566.16
73475.91 ± 8107.24
257.88 ± 4.84
100.00 ± 0.00
859.60 ± 2.04
737655.85 ± 25568.85
999900.00 ± 0.00
322741.20 ± 23024.88
681291.73 ± 3469.95
143899.22 ± 53.78
24.00 ± 0.00
2372.77 ± 3.50
87.83 ± 2.78
33.48 ± 0.16
12290.11 ± 7936.49
119803.94 ± 3197.88
14194.45 ± 1250.63
54967.97 ± 5411.73
86.56 ± 1.21
32926.31 ± 3073.94
15185.87 ± 931.58
149221.98 ± 17583.30
228228.90 ± 5316.74
2300.00 ± 668.33
45011.73 ± 1822.30
74104.70 ± 9053.70
937874.90 ± 22525.79
-0.45 ± 0.50
20.95 ± 0.01
34601.01 ± 5266.39
434753.72 ± 99793.58
43174.10 ± 2335.12
116149.17 ± 18257.21
143.59 ± 0.29
999999.00 ± 0.00
-14576.05 ± 875.96
6566.03 ± 2209.91
36069.75 ± 23408.12
420337.48 ± 8309.08
9.96 ± 0.01
24.00 ± 0.00
452966.67 ± 5300.62
466.59 ± 38.40
679303.61 ± 4852.85
2013.31 ± 11.24
964670.12 ± 4015.52
134017.82 ± 11871.88
998474.20 ± 589.50
114990.68 ± 56726.18

R2D2
399709.08 ± 106191.42
30338.91 ± 1087.62
124931.33 ± 2627.16
999403.53 ± 76.75
394765.73 ± 16944.82
1644680.76 ± 5784.97
38536.66 ± 11645.73
956179.17 ± 31019.66
246078.69 ± 3667.61
64852.56 ± 17875.17
229.39 ± 24.57
99.27 ± 0.35
863.25 ± 0.34
693733.73 ± 74495.81
999900.00 ± 0.00
549054.89 ± 39413.08
692114.71 ± 4864.99
143830.91 ± 107.18
23.97 ± 0.03
2380.22 ± 5.47
87.81 ± 1.28
32.90 ± 0.11
446703.01 ± 63780.51
126241.97 ± 519.70
17352.78 ± 2675.27
39786.01 ± 7638.19
86.89 ± 0.88
28988.32 ± 263.79
14492.75 ± 5.29
291043.06 ± 10051.59
252876.65 ± 10424.57
2666.67 ± 235.70
50337.02 ± 4004.55
74501.48 ± 11562.26
876045.70 ± 25511.04
0.00 ± 0.00
21.00 ± 0.00
18765.05 ± 16672.27
771069.21 ± 152722.56
54280.32 ± 1245.60
613659.42 ± 397.72
130.72 ± 9.75
999999.00 ± 0.00
-17797.59 ± 866.55
11247.88 ± 1999.22
67229.37 ± 2316.31
923739.89 ± 69234.32
10.00 ± 0.00
7.93 ± 11.36
454055.63 ± 2205.07
413.80 ± 3.89
599134.12 ± 3394.48
2047.51 ± 20.83
999697.05 ± 53.37
179376.15 ± 6659.14
999748.54 ± 46.19
366028.59 ± 49366.03

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

H.5. Atari 57 Learning Curves

Figure 14. Learning curves for Agent57 on Atari57.

Agent57: Outperforming the Atari Human Benchmark

H.6. Videos
We provide several videos in https://sites.google.com/corp/view/agent57. We show
• Agent57 on all 57 games: We provide an example video for each game in the Atari 57 sweep in which Agent57
surpasses the human baseline.
• State-action Value Function Parameterization: To illustrate the importance of the value function parametrization
we show videos in two games Ice Hockey and Surround. We show videos for exploitative and exploratory policies
for both NGU and Agent57. In Ice Hockey, exploratory and exploitative policies are quite achieving very different
scores. Specifically the exploratory policy does not aim to score goals, it prefers to move around the court exploring
new configurations. On the other hand, NGU with a single architecture is unable to learn both policies simultaneously,
while Agent57 show very diverse performance. In the case of Surround NGU is again unable to learn. We conjecture
that the exploratory policy chooses to loose a point in order to start afresh increasing the diversity of the observations.
Agent57 is able to overcome this problem and both exploitative and exploratory policies are able to obtain scores
surpassing the human baseline.
• Adaptive Discount Factor: We show example videos for R2D2 (bandit) and R2D2 (retrace) in the game James Bond.
R2D2 (retrace) learns to clear the game with a final score in the order of 30,000 points. R2D2 (bandit) in contrast,
learns to delay the end of the game to collect significantly more rewards with a score around 140,000 points. To
achieve this, the adaptive mechanism in the meta-controller, selects policies with very high discount factors.
• Backprop Through Time Window Size: We provide videos showing example episodes for NGU and Agent57 on
the game of Solaris. In order to achieve high scores, the agent needs to learn to move around the grid screen and look
for enemies. This is a long term credit assignment problem as the agent needs to bind the actions taken on the grid
screen with the reward achieved many time steps later.

